0,17283,House Republicans Fret About Winning Their Health Care Suit - The New York Times,New York Times,Carl Hulse,2016-12-31,2016.0,12.0,,"WASHINGTON  —   Congressional Republicans have a new fear when it comes to their    health care lawsuit against the Obama administration: They might win. The incoming Trump administration could choose to no longer defend the executive branch against the suit, which challenges the administration’s authority to spend billions of dollars on health insurance subsidies for   and   Americans, handing House Republicans a big victory on    issues. But a sudden loss of the disputed subsidies could conceivably cause the health care program to implode, leaving millions of people without access to health insurance before Republicans have prepared a replacement. That could lead to chaos in the insurance market and spur a political backlash just as Republicans gain full control of the government. To stave off that outcome, Republicans could find themselves in the awkward position of appropriating huge sums to temporarily prop up the Obama health care law, angering conservative voters who have been demanding an end to the law for years. In another twist, Donald J. Trump’s administration, worried about preserving executive branch prerogatives, could choose to fight its Republican allies in the House on some central questions in the dispute. Eager to avoid an ugly political pileup, Republicans on Capitol Hill and the Trump transition team are gaming out how to handle the lawsuit, which, after the election, has been put in limbo until at least late February by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. They are not yet ready to divulge their strategy. “Given that this pending litigation involves the Obama administration and Congress, it would be inappropriate to comment,” said Phillip J. Blando, a spokesman for the Trump transition effort. “Upon taking office, the Trump administration will evaluate this case and all related aspects of the Affordable Care Act. ” In a potentially   decision in 2015, Judge Rosemary M. Collyer ruled that House Republicans had the standing to sue the executive branch over a spending dispute and that the Obama administration had been distributing the health insurance subsidies, in violation of the Constitution, without approval from Congress. The Justice Department, confident that Judge Collyer’s decision would be reversed, quickly appealed, and the subsidies have remained in place during the appeal. In successfully seeking a temporary halt in the proceedings after Mr. Trump won, House Republicans last month told the court that they “and the  ’s transition team currently are discussing potential options for resolution of this matter, to take effect after the  ’s inauguration on Jan. 20, 2017. ” The suspension of the case, House lawyers said, will “provide the   and his future administration time to consider whether to continue prosecuting or to otherwise resolve this appeal. ” Republican leadership officials in the House acknowledge the possibility of “cascading effects” if the   payments, which have totaled an estimated $13 billion, are suddenly stopped. Insurers that receive the subsidies in exchange for paying    costs such as deductibles and   for eligible consumers could race to drop coverage since they would be losing money. Over all, the loss of the subsidies could destabilize the entire program and cause a lack of confidence that leads other insurers to seek a quick exit as well. Anticipating that the Trump administration might not be inclined to mount a vigorous fight against the House Republicans given the  ’s dim view of the health care law, a team of lawyers this month sought to intervene in the case on behalf of two participants in the health care program. In their request, the lawyers predicted that a deal between House Republicans and the new administration to dismiss or settle the case “will produce devastating consequences for the individuals who receive these reductions, as well as for the nation’s health insurance and health care systems generally. ” No matter what happens, House Republicans say, they want to prevail on two overarching concepts: the congressional power of the purse, and the right of Congress to sue the executive branch if it violates the Constitution regarding that spending power. House Republicans contend that Congress never appropriated the money for the subsidies, as required by the Constitution. In the suit, which was initially championed by John A. Boehner, the House speaker at the time, and later in House committee reports, Republicans asserted that the administration, desperate for the funding, had required the Treasury Department to provide it despite widespread internal skepticism that the spending was proper. The White House said that the spending was a permanent part of the law passed in 2010, and that no annual appropriation was required  —   even though the administration initially sought one. Just as important to House Republicans, Judge Collyer found that Congress had the standing to sue the White House on this issue  —   a ruling that many legal experts said was flawed  —   and they want that precedent to be set to restore congressional leverage over the executive branch. But on spending power and standing, the Trump administration may come under pressure from advocates of presidential authority to fight the House no matter their shared views on health care, since those precedents could have broad repercussions. It is a complicated set of dynamics illustrating how a quick legal victory for the House in the Trump era might come with costs that Republicans never anticipated when they took on the Obama White House."
1,17284,Rift Between Officers and Residents as Killings Persist in South Bronx - The New York Times,New York Times,Benjamin Mueller and Al Baker,2017-06-19,2017.0,6.0,,"After the bullet shells get counted, the blood dries and the votive candles burn out, people peer down from   windows and see crime scenes gone cold: a band of yellow police tape blowing in the breeze. The South Bronx, just across the Harlem River from Manhattan and once shorthand for urban dysfunction, still suffers violence at levels long ago slashed in many other parts of New York City. And yet the city’s efforts to fight it remain splintered, underfunded and burdened by scandal. In the 40th Precinct, at the southern tip of the Bronx, as in other poor, minority neighborhoods across the country, people long hounded for   infractions are crying out for more protection against grievous injury or death. By September, four of every five shootings in the precinct this year were unsolved. Out of the city’s 77 precincts, the 40th has the highest murder rate but the fewest detectives per violent crime, reflecting disparities in staffing that hit hardest in some neighborhoods outside Manhattan, according to a New York Times analysis of Police Department data. Investigators in the precinct are saddled with twice the number of cases the department recommends, even as their bosses are called to Police Headquarters to answer for the sharpest crime rise in the city this year. And across the Bronx, investigative resources are squeezed. It has the highest   rate of the city’s five boroughs but the thinnest detective staffing. Nine of the 14   precinct detective squads for violent crime in the city are there. The borough’s robbery squad is smaller than Manhattan’s, even though the Bronx has had 1, 300 more cases this year. And its homicide squad has one detective for every four murders, compared with one detective for roughly every two murders in Upper Manhattan and more than one detective per murder in Lower Manhattan. In   lobbies and   family apartments, outside methadone clinics and art studios, people take note of the inequity. They hear police commanders explain that they lack the resources to place a floodlight on a dangerous block or to post officers at a   corner. They watch witnesses cower behind   doors, more fearful of a gunman’s crew than confident in the Police Department’s ability to protect them. So though people see a lot, they rarely testify. And in the South Bronx, as in so many predominantly black and Hispanic neighborhoods like it in the United States, the contract between the police and the community is in tatters. Some people have stories of crime reports that were ignored, or 911 calls that went unanswered for hours. Others tell of a 911 call for help ending in the caller’s arrest, or of a minor charge leading to 12 hours in a fetid holding cell. This is the paradox of policing in the 40th Precinct. Its neighborhoods have historically been prime targets for aggressive tactics, like    that are designed to ward off disorder. But precinct detectives there have less time than anywhere else in the city to answer for the blood spilled in violent crimes. Gola White, who was beside her daughter when she was shot and killed in a playground this summer, four years after her son was gunned down in the same housing project, ticked off the public safety resources that she said were scant in Bronx neighborhoods like hers: security cameras, lights, locks, investigating police officers. “Here, we have nothing,” she said. When it comes to “  families,” she said, the authorities “don’t really care as much. That’s how I feel. ” The Times has been documenting the murders logged this year in the 40th Precinct, one of a handful of neighborhoods where deadly violence remains a problem in an era of   crime in New York City. The homicides  —   14 in the precinct this year, up from nine in 2015  —   strain detectives, and when they go unsolved, as half of them have this year, some look to take the law into their own hands. From hundreds of conversations with grieving relatives and friends, witnesses and police officers, the social forces that flare into murder in a place like the 40th Precinct become clearer: merciless gang codes, mental illness, drugs and long memories of feuds that simmered out of officers’ view. The reasons some murders will never be solved also emerge: paralyzing fear of retribution, victims carrying secrets to their graves and relentless casework that forces detectives to move on in hopes that a break will come later. Frustrations build on all sides. Detectives’ phones rarely ring with tips, and officers grow embittered with witnesses who will not cooperate. In the meantime, a victim’s friends conduct their own investigations, and talk of grabbing a stash gun from a wheel well or a mother’s apartment when they find their suspect. In the chasm between the police and the community, gangs and gun violence flourish. Parents try to protect their families from drug crews’ threats, and officers work to overcome the residue of years of mistrust and understaffing in communities where they still go racing from one 911 call to the next. The streets around St. Mary’s Park were the scene of two fatal shootings logged in the 40th Precinct this year. Both are unsolved. James Fernandez heard talk of the murders through the door of his   apartment on East 146th Street in a     the Betances Houses. He lived at the end of a long hallway strewn with hypodermic needles, empty dope bags and discarded Hennessy bottles. A   young men who spoke of being in a subset of the Bloods gang had made it their drug market, slinging marijuana and cocaine to regulars, flashing firearms and blowing smoke into the Fernandez apartment. When Mr. Fernandez, 40, asked the young men to move, they answered by busting up his car. This kind of crime, an anachronism in much of New York, still rattles the 40th Precinct, even though murders there have fallen to 14 this year from 83 in 1991. It has more major felony crimes per resident than any other residential district in the city. It is also one of the poorest communities in the country, and many young men find their way into underground markets. Mr. Fernandez was not one to shrink from the threats. When he was growing up on the Lower East Side, he rode his bicycle around to the customers of the drug dealers he worked for and collected payments in a backpack. After leaving that life, he got a tech maintenance job and, three years ago, moved into the Betances Houses with his wife and daughter, now 11. He had two choices to get help with the drug crew: call the police for help and risk being labeled a snitch, or call his old Lower East Side bosses for muscle and risk violence. He chose the police. Again and again, he walked into a local substation, Police Service Area 7, and asked for protection. His daughter was using an inhaler to relieve coughs from the marijuana smoke. Mr. Fernandez and his wife got terrible headaches. “There’s a lot of killers here, and we are going to kill you,” a sergeant’s police report quoted a    telling Mr. Fernandez in August 2015. A second report filed the same day said a    warned him, “I’m going to shoot through your window. ” Mr. Fernandez told the police both the teenagers’ names, which appear in the reports, and then went home. He said one of their friends had seen him walk into the substation, and they tried to intimidate him out of filing another report. Three days later, the same    propped his bike on their door, “then said if I was to open the door and say something, they would body slam me,” Mr. Fernandez’s wife, Maria Fernandez, wrote on slips of paper she used to document the hallway ruckus and the inadequate police response. The boys made comments about how easy a target she was and about how they would have to “slap” her if she opened the door while they made a drug sale, and they threatened to beat the Fernandez family because “they are the ones snitching,” her notes say. But another   complaint at the substation, 10 days after the first, brought no relief. A week later, feeling desperate, Ms. Fernandez tried calling: first to the substation, at 8:50 p. m. when one of the boys blew weed smoke at her door and made a   threat to attack her, and then to 911 at 10:36 p. m. The police never came, she wrote in her notes. She tried the 40th Precinct station house next, but officers at the desk left her standing in the public waiting area for a   she said, making her fear being seen again. Officers put her in worse danger some months later, she said, when they came to her door and announced in front of the teenagers that they were there on a complaint about drug activity. Mr. Fernandez started doing the work that he said the police had failed to do. He wired a camera into his peephole to record the drugs and guns. The footage hark back to the New York of the 1980s, still very much present to some of the precinct’s residents. Around 6:30 each morning, Sgt. Michael J. LoPuzzo walks through the tall wooden doors of the 40th Precinct station house. The cases that land on his metal desk  —   dead bodies with no known cause, strip club brawls, shooting victims hobbling into the hospital themselves  —   bring resistance at every turn, reminding him of an earlier era in the city’s   campaign. “I haven’t got one single phone call that’s putting me in the right direction here,” said Sergeant LoPuzzo, the head of the precinct’s detective squad, one day this summer as he worked on an answer to an email inquiry from a murder victim’s aunt about why the killer had not been caught. “And people just don’t understand that. ” Often it is detectives who most feel the effects of people turning on the police. Witnesses shout them away from their doors just so neighbors know they refuse to talk. Of the 184 people who were shot and wounded in the Bronx through early September, more than a third  —   66 victims  —   refused to cooperate. Over the same period in the 40th Precinct, squad detectives closed three of 17 nonfatal shootings, and 72 of 343 robbery cases. Part of the resistance stems from   preventive policing tactics, like    that were a hallmark of the     style under former Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and his police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly. Near the height of the    strategy, in 2012, the 40th Precinct had the   stops in the city, the   stops in which officers used force and the most frisks. Of 18, 276 stops that year, 15, 521 were of people who had done nothing criminal. The precinct was also one of the   areas that the department flooded with its newest officers. At roll calls, they were pressured to generate numbers: write tickets and make arrests. They had no choice but to give a summons to a young man playing in a park after dark, even if the officers had done the same growing up in the same neighborhood. “I need to bring something in today to justify my existence,” Officer Argenis Rosado, who joined the precinct in 2010, said in an interview at the station house. “So now you’re in a small area, and day after day you’re hammering the same community. Of course that community’s eventually going to turn on you. ” The pressure warped the way officers and residents saw each other. Rookies had to ignore why someone might be drinking outside or sitting on a stoop. “Some of the cops that came out at that time probably viewed the community differently, too,” said Hector Espada, a   veteran of the precinct. “Not because they wanted to, but because they had to. Because some way or somehow, you can’t give someone a $115 summons and feel like you guys could still have a civil conversation after that. ” Morale wilted in the aged station house on Alexander Avenue, in Mott Haven. Officers felt pressure to downgrade crime complaints to make them appear less serious. Several said in interviews that they had overlooked crime reports from immigrants because they were seen as unlikely to complain, and watched supervisors badger victims into repeating their stories in hopes that they would drop their complaints. The practice of downgrading complaints resulted in the disciplining of 19 officers in the precinct last year, one in a string of scandals that has left officers there feeling overscrutinized for problems that also existed elsewhere. Four commanders in the precinct were sent packing in five years, one of them after officers were found to be “ticket fixing,” or forgiving parking tickets for friends, and another after he was recorded giving guidance on whom to stop and frisk: black boys and men, ages 14 to 21. Some officers fled to other commands. Others became reluctant to take assignments in proactive policing units, like   that put them in   situations on the street. “Whenever I walked through the doors of the precinct, to me, it seemed like a black cloud,” said Russell Lewis, a    of the 40th. “It was like a heaviness. When you walked in, all you wanted to do was do your 8 hours 35 minutes and go home, because you didn’t want to get caught up in anything. ” The precinct covers only about two square miles, but the more than a dozen housing projects there mean that it overflows with people. Methadone clinics draw addicts from around the city.   lofts on the southern edge of the precinct presage a wave of gentrification. Even as the Police Department has hired 1, 300 more officers for neighborhood policing and counterterrorism, officers in the 40th Precinct said they could still rush to 25 911 calls during a shift  —   a number unchanged from what the new police commissioner, James P. O’Neill, said he was handling in a similar South Bronx precinct 15 years ago. Several dozen calls at a time can be waiting for a response. Residents know that if you want the police for a domestic problem, it helps to hint that there is a weapon. Last year, the precinct drew the   number of civilian complaints for officer misconduct in the city, and the most lawsuits stemming from police actions. The precinct is trying to improve morale under a new commanding officer, Deputy Inspector Brian Hennessy. A cadre of what the department calls neighborhood coordination officers has been on patrol since last January, part of a citywide effort under Mr. O’Neill and Mayor Bill de Blasio to bring back the beat cop, unencumbered by chasing every last 911 call, who can listen to people’s concerns and help with investigations. The precinct has made among the most gun arrests in the city, and officers said they now had more discretion to resolve encounters without a summons or an arrest. At one corner near a school, on Courtlandt Avenue and East 151st Street, that has long spawned complaints about gunfire and fights, Inspector Hennessy and some of his officers painted over graffiti and swept up drug paraphernalia this summer. People said it was the first answer to their complaints in years. But the inspector acknowledged that the residue of   policing lingers. “That perception really sticks,” he said. The workload in the 40th Precinct is startling and reveals a gap in how detective squads are equipped to answer violent crime in Manhattan compared with the Bronx, Brooklyn and Queens. Three of the precinct’s 16 detectives are carrying more than 400 cases each this year, and many others have loads in the high 300s, even though the department advises 150 in violent precincts. When they are assigned a homicide, they typically have four days to investigate before dealing with other cases. Quieter precincts can give detectives a month with little distraction to investigate a murder. Detectives in the 40th Precinct have each handled an average of 79 violent felonies this year through    —   murders, rapes, felony assaults and robberies. By contrast, a detective in the precinct on the southern end of Staten Island carries nine such cases a detective in the precinct patrolling Union Square and Gramercy Park handles 16 and a detective in the precinct for most of Washington Heights handles 32, the citywide median. Last year, the 40th was the    for violent crime, with 65 cases per detective. In the Bronx as a whole, a precinct detective has carried an average of 58 violent felonies this year, compared with 27 in Manhattan, 37 in Brooklyn, 38 in Queens and 25 on Staten Island. Rape cases and robbery patterns are later sent to more specialized units, but precinct detectives do extensive initial work to interview victims, write reports and process evidence. Precincts in much of Manhattan, which are whiter and wealthier than the South Bronx, often have more property felonies, like stolen laptops or credit cards, and the police say those can be complex. But even accounting for those crimes, the 40th Precinct has some of the heaviest caseloads of overall crime per detective in the city. Michael Palladino, the head of the Detectives’ Endowment Association and a former Bronx officer, said staffing disparities affected the department’s efforts to build trust in communities like the South Bronx. Witnesses make a calculation, he said: “If I cooperate with the detectives, there’s so much work, there’s so few of them there, they won’t even get the chance to protect me, or they’ll be there too late when the retaliation comes. ” Sergeant LoPuzzo, who turned down a more prestigious post to stay in the 40th Precinct, said that his squad worked tirelessly to handle cases with the people he had, and that while every squad wanted more detectives, staffing needs for counterterrorism units and task forces had created new deployment challenges across the department. “We fight with the army we have, not the army we wish we had,” he said. Details of how the Police Department assigns its 36, 000 officers are closely held and constantly in flux, and the public has minimal information on how personnel are allocated. Presented with The Times’s analysis of confidential staffing data, the department’s chief of detectives, Robert K. Boyce, vowed to send more detectives to the 40th Precinct and said the department would reassess its deployment more broadly in troubled precincts. He said a recent decision to bring gang, narcotics and vice detectives under his command made it easier to shift personnel. Chief Boyce said the burdens on detectives went beyond felony crimes to include   and   cases. And he noted the support that precinct squads got from centralized units focusing on robberies, gangs or grand larcenies, for example. Major crime keeps pounding the 40th Precinct, at rates that in 2015 were only a tenth of a percent lower than in 2001, even as citywide crime dropped by more than a third over the same period. But the precinct’s detective squad shrank by about eight investigators during those years, according to staffing data obtained from the City Council through a Freedom of Information Law request. The squad covering Union Square and Gramercy Park, where crime dropped by a third over that period, grew by about 11 investigators. (The 40th Precinct was given an additional detective and four   investigators this summer, when it was already missing three detectives for illness or other reasons.) Retired detectives are skeptical that community relations alone can drive down crime in the city’s last “” the busiest precincts. Rather, they say, the Police Department should be dedicating more resources to providing the same sort of robust investigative response that seems standard in Manhattan. “Any crime in Manhattan has to be solved,” said Howard Landesberg, who was a 40th Precinct detective in the late 1980s. “The outer boroughs are, like, forgotten. ” Retired detectives said that understaffing made it harder to solve crimes in the Bronx, Brooklyn and Queens, where the higher prevalence of gang and drug killings already saddled investigators with cases in which people were not inclined to cooperate. Through   detectives had closed 67 percent of homicides in Manhattan and 76 percent of those in Staten Island this year, compared with 54 percent of those in the Bronx, 42 percent of those in Queens and 31 percent of those in Brooklyn. Of last year’s homicides, detectives cleared 71 percent in Manhattan, 63 percent in the Bronx, 62 percent in Queens, 57 percent in Staten Island and 31 percent in Brooklyn. “It’s the culture of the Police Department that they worry about Manhattan,” said Joseph L. Giacalone, a former sergeant in the Bronx Cold Case Squad, in part “because that’s where the money is. ” He added: “When de Blasio came in, he talked about the tale of two cities. And then he’s done the complete opposite of what he said. It’s just business as usual. ” The Bronx’s struggles extend into prosecutions. In each of the last five years, prosecutors in the Bronx have declined to prosecute violent felony cases more than anywhere else in the city. And the rate of conviction in the Bronx is routinely the lowest in the city as well, but has ticked up this year to surpass Brooklyn’s rate through November as Bronx prosecutors work to streamline cases. Some cases have become even more difficult to win because of the   problem in the 40th Precinct, which has allowed defense lawyers to attack the credibility of officers who were implicated, said Patrice O’Shaughnessy, a spokeswoman for the Bronx District Attorney’s office. The district attorney, Darcel D. Clark, elected in 2015, said in a statement, “I was a judge here in the Bronx, and I heard from jurors that they can’t be impartial because they don’t trust the police. ” Against that tide of mistrust, Sergeant LoPuzzo’s detectives work 36 hours straight on some fresh cases. They buy Chinese takeout with their own money for a murder suspect. They carry surveillance videos home in hopes that their personal computers may enhance them better than a squad computer. They buy an urn for a homeless mother who has her murdered son’s ashes in a box. In the months after a killing, they can seem like the only people in this glittering city who are paying attention to the 40th Precinct’s homicide victims. Newly fatherless children go back to school without a therapist’s help. Victims’ families wander confused through a courthouse and nearly miss an appearance. Newspapers largely ignore killings of people with criminal pasts, pushing them down the priority lists of the   chiefs at Police Headquarters. In a stuffy   squad room, the detectives of the 40th Precinct grapple with an inheritance of government neglect. They meet mothers who believe their sons might never have been murdered had a city guidance counselor listened to pleas to help them stay enrolled, or had a city housing worker fixed the locks or lights on a building. And the detectives work alongside a vicious system on the streets for punishing police cooperators. Young men scan court paperwork in prison, looking for the names of people who turned on them. One murder victim in the precinct this year was cast out of his crew after he avoided being arrested with them in a gang takedown some believed he was cooperating. A longtime 40th Precinct detective, Jeff Meenagh, said a witness in a homicide case was going to testify until he went back to his neighborhood and was told that anyone who testified would “get what you deserve. ” The allies Sergeant LoPuzzo makes are friendly only for so long. He helped clear a woman’s son of a robbery charge by locating surveillance video that proved he was not the robber. The mother started calling with tips under a code name  —   about a gun under a car, for example. But she always refused to testify. And she cut ties this year after Sergeant LoPuzzo arrested her son in the stabbing of two people and her   in a shooting. New York City owns East 146th Street and the   buildings on each side. But James Fernandez, in the Betances Houses, said the reality on the ground was different: The drug boss ran the block. By October, Mr. Fernandez was increasingly afraid  —   and fed up. Mr. Fernandez and his wife went so far as to give officers keys to the building door, so they could get in whenever they wanted, showed them the videos and offered them   access to his camera so they could see what was happening in the hallway. A couple of officers said they needed a supervisor’s permission to do more. Others answered that the young men were only making threats. Officers occasionally stopped outside their building, causing the young men to scatter, but did not come inside, Mr. Fernandez said. The menacing worsened. Mr. Fernandez’s daughter was harassed as she arrived home from school. She grew more and more distressed, and her parents had her start seeing a therapist. Mr. Fernandez made several complaints at the office of the borough president, Ruben Diaz Jr. and visited a victim’s advocate in the district attorney’s office. On Oct. 20, 2015, he sent an online note to the police commissioner’s office. “We went to all proper channels for help,” the note said. “Both precincts failed us, except 2 officers who helped us, but their hands are tied. No one else to turn to. I have months of video of multiple crimes taking place and we are in extreme danger. ” “40th and PSA 7 won’t do anything,” he wrote, referring to the local substation. “Please we need to speak to some one with authority. ” The local substation commander, Deputy Inspector Jerry O’Sullivan, and the Bronx narcotics unit were alerted to the complaints. But Mr. Fernandez said he never heard from them. So he relied on his own street instincts to protect his family. He made pleas to a man he thought was employing the dealers in the hallway. The activity quieted briefly, but it returned after the young men rented a room in a woman’s apartment upstairs. Mr. Fernandez approached a different man who he learned was the boss of the operation. The man agreed to ask the dealers to calm down. He even hired a drug customer to sweep the hallway, Mr. Fernandez said. But two weeks later, the dealing and the harassment resumed. So he went to his old Lower East Side bosses, who hired men to trail his wife and daughter on their way out of the building and make sure they made it safely to school. At other times they sat outside the Betances Houses. He also bought two bulletproof vests, for about $700 each. He could not find one small enough for his daughter. “I have no faith in the City of New York, I have no faith in the police, I have no faith in the politicians,” Mr. Fernandez said. “The only thing I know for sure: God, if we’re in a situation again, I will be left to defend my family. ” Paying such close attention to what was happening in the hallway, Mr. Fernandez said he learned some details about two recent homicides that the 40th Precinct was investigating. But because his calls for help were going nowhere, he said he decided not to put himself in greater risk by talking: He would not tell the police what he had learned. “I’m bending over backward, and nobody’s not even doing anything,” he said. “Why am I going to help you, if you ain’t going to help me?” By last January, a new neighborhood coordination officer was working with residents of the Betances Houses, and ended up with the most arrests in his housing command, Inspector O’Sullivan said. Chief Boyce said that the silos in which gang and narcotics detectives used to work made responding to complaints more difficult, but that the recent restructuring would remove those obstacles. “No one should live like Mr. Fernandez lived, with people dealing drugs outside of his apartment,” he said. Mr. Fernandez’s complaints did not spur any arrests, but two men from the hallway were caught separately this year in shootings. One of them, whom Mr. Fernandez named in a police report, was charged this summer with hitting an officer with a metal folding chair and firing three gunshots into a crowd, court papers say. He is being held on Rikers Island on an attempted murder charge. That was too late for Mr. Fernandez. By May, he had moved his family away."
4,17287,Kim Jong-un Says North Korea Is Preparing to Test Long-Range Missile - The New York Times,New York Times,Choe Sang-Hun,2017-01-02,2017.0,1.0,,"SEOUL, South Korea  —   North Korea’s leader, Kim   said on Sunday that his country was making final preparations to conduct its first test of an intercontinental ballistic missile  —   a bold statement less than a month before the inauguration of   Donald J. Trump. Although North Korea has conducted five nuclear tests in the last decade and more than 20 ballistic missile tests in 2016 alone, and although it habitually threatens to attack the United States with nuclear weapons, the country has never   an intercontinental ballistic missile, or ICBM. In his annual New Year’s Day speech, which was broadcast on the North’s   KCTV on Sunday, Mr. Kim spoke proudly of the strides he said his country had made in its nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programs. He said North Korea would continue to bolster its weapons programs as long as the United States remained hostile and continued its joint military exercises with South Korea. “We have reached the final stage in preparations to   an intercontinental ballistic rocket,” he said. Analysts in the region have said Mr. Kim might conduct another weapons test in coming months, taking advantage of leadership changes in the United States and South Korea. Mr. Trump will be sworn in on Jan. 20. In South Korea, President Park   whose powers were suspended in a Parliamentary impeachment on Dec. 9, is waiting for the Constitutional Court to rule on whether she should be formally removed from office or reinstated. If North Korea conducts a    test in coming months, it will test Mr. Trump’s new administration despite years of increasingly harsh sanctions, North Korea has been advancing toward Mr. Kim’s professed goal of arming his isolated country with the ability to deliver a nuclear warhead to the United States. Mr. Kim’s speech on Sunday indicated that North Korea may   a   rocket several times this year to complete its ICBM program, said Cheong   a senior research fellow at the Sejong Institute in South Korea. The first of such tests could come even before Mr. Trump’s inauguration, Mr. Cheong said. “We need to take note of the fact that this is the first New Year’s speech where Kim   mentioned an intercontinental ballistic missile,” he said. In his speech, Mr. Kim did not comment on Mr. Trump’s election. Doubt still runs deep that North Korea has mastered all the technology needed to build a reliable ICBM. But analysts in the region said the North’s launchings of   rockets to put satellites into orbit in recent years showed that the country had cleared some key technological hurdles. After the North’s satellite launch in February, South Korean defense officials said the Unha rocket used in the launch, if successfully reconfigured as a missile, could fly more than 7, 400 miles with a warhead of 1, 100 to 1, 300 pounds  —   far enough to reach most of the United States. North Korea has deployed Rodong ballistic missiles that can reach most of South Korea and Japan, but it has had a spotty record in   the Musudan, its   ballistic missile with a range long enough to reach American military bases in the Pacific, including those on Guam. The North has also claimed a series of successes in testing various ICBM technologies, although its claims cannot be verified and are often disputed by officials and analysts in the region. It has said it could now make nuclear warheads small enough to fit onto a ballistic missile. It also claimed success in testing the   technology that allows a   missile to return to the Earth’s atmosphere without breaking up. In April, North Korea reported the successful ground test of an engine for an intercontinental ballistic missile. At the time, Mr. Kim said the North “can tip   intercontinental ballistic rockets with more powerful nuclear warheads and keep any cesspool of evils in the Earth, including the U. S. mainland, within our striking range. ” On Sept. 9, the North conducted its fifth, and most powerful, nuclear test. Mr. Kim later attended another ground test of a new   rocket engine, exhorting his government to prepare for another rocket launch as soon as possible. In November, the United Nations Security Council imposed new  sanctions against the North."
6,17289,Taiwan’s President Accuses China of Renewed Intimidation - The New York Times,New York Times,Javier C. Hernández,2017-01-02,2017.0,1.0,,"BEIJING  —   President Tsai   of Taiwan sharply criticized China’s leaders on Saturday, saying they had resorted to military and economic threats in order to intimidate the island. “Step by step, Beijing is going back to the old path of dividing, coercing and even threatening and intimidating Taiwan,” she told journalists in Taipei, the capital, at a   news conference. Tensions between Taiwan and China, which have been rivals since the Communist Revolution of 1949, intensified in December after Ms. Tsai spoke on the phone with the American   Donald J. Trump, breaking a longstanding diplomatic practice. In recent weeks, China has stepped up military activities near Taiwan, sending its sole aircraft carrier through the waters near the island and dispatching military planes in the region. On Monday, Beijing announced that São Tomé and Príncipe, an island nation off the west coast of Africa that was one of Taiwan’s fewer than two dozen remaining diplomatic allies, had switched its allegiance to the mainland, provoking an outcry in Taiwan. Despite Beijing’s recent actions, which she said had “hurt the feelings” of the Taiwanese people and destabilized relations, Ms. Tsai vowed to avoid a confrontation. “We will not bow to pressure, and we will of course not revert to the old path of confrontation,” she said. Ms. Tsai faces the delicate task of registering discontent with Beijing while also sending a message that Taiwan will exercise restraint. The United States, which sees Taiwan as one of its most reliable allies in Asia and has sold billions of dollars of weapons to the island, has long sought to avoid a conflict between the two sides. But the election of Mr. Trump could complicate matters. He has antagonized Beijing with a series of critical comments. The   has also questioned the One China policy, which has underpinned relations between Washington and Beijing for decades, and criticized China’s military buildup in the disputed South China Sea. Bonnie S. Glaser, an Asia expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, said Ms. Tsai’s words might reassure American officials that she would not pursue rash policies in the face of China’s show of strength. “She remains calm, rational and patient,” Ms. Glaser wrote in an email. Still, Ms. Tsai, whose Democratic Progressive Party has traditionally favored independence for Taiwan, could face serious challenges in the coming months. Many people in Taiwan are nervous that Mr. Trump will use the island as a bargaining chip against China. And Ms. Tsai’s preference for stability in the region may not mesh with Mr. Trump’s bombastic style. Richard C. Bush, the director of the Center for East Asia Policy Studies at the Brookings Institution in Washington, said Ms. Tsai understood the need to “maintain a balance among relations with China, relations with the United States and domestic politics. ” Ms. Tsai’s vision, however, “may not align well with the incoming Trump administration’s apparent belief that it can pressure China on all fronts more than the Obama administration has,” he said. Ms. Tsai also sought to quell concerns about planned stopovers in Houston and San Francisco during a visit to Central America scheduled for January. The Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Thursday called on the United States to block Ms. Tsai from entering the country, warning that such a visit would embolden independence activists in Taiwan. Ms. Tsai described the visit as “unofficial,” saying, “A transit stop is just a transit stop. ”"
9,17292,Calling on Angels While Enduring the Trials of Job - The New York Times,New York Times,Andy Newman,2016-12-31,2016.0,12.0,,"Angels are everywhere in the Muñiz family’s apartment in the Bronx: paintings of angels on the wall, ceramic angels flanking the ancient VCR, angels strumming lyres or blowing little golden trumpets on the bathroom shelves. As José and Zoraida Muñiz and their children have struggled to deal with a   series of trials and setbacks, including cancer, debilitating epilepsy, deep depression and near eviction, it has sometimes seemed as if angels and love were the only forces holding things together. Zoraida’s early life in Puerto Rico was like something from a tropical Dickens novel. She and her siblings and mother built a house by hand after a hurricane ravaged their home and the children’s father withdrew support. Then Zoraida’s grandfather  —   the father of her absent father  —   destroyed the house in a rage. She was barely a teenager when she met José, a Vietnam War veteran. With permission from her uncle, a judge, they were married. She was 14. He was 29. They moved to New York in 1983 and started a new life. He built boilers. She worked in construction, using skills she learned as a child, and in a clothing store. But in 1987, Mr. Muñiz began having violent seizures  —   eight or 10 a day. They did not respond to medication. He could no longer work. She stopped working to take care of him. Still determined to live something like a normal life, they started a family. Their first child, José Jr. had a heart defect. By the time he was 2 he had had six   operations. That’s where the angels came in  —   the first one was a painting, a gift from a cousin.  “When they operated on my son, they told me he was an angel, because he was supposed to die,” Ms. Muñiz, 50, said. “From there I figured that angels are taking care of me and protecting me and my family. ” All the angels are gifts from friends and relatives, or picked up off the street, just like all the furniture in the Muñizes’ overstuffed apartment in a   complex on Westchester Avenue in the Bronx, much of it restored by Ms. Muñiz. “So many people throw away things, so I don’t have to buy,” she said. A second son, Jesus, became epileptic at 3. A girl, Maria, completed the family. In 2007, Mr. Muñiz had what felt like a horrible, stubborn toothache. It turned out to be cancer of the lower jaw. Ms. Muñiz stayed in the room with her husband while he received radiation treatment. “I’m willing to take anything with him,” she said. “I never left him alone, and I never will. ” Radiation did not work. To save Mr. Muñiz’s life, surgeons removed his tongue and his lower jaw and cut a hole through his esophagus. Disfigured, depressed and unable to speak, he can consume nothing thicker than milk and needs   care. This is the household where the Muñiz children grew up. “We’ve been through every craziness,” said José Jr. 24, who has suffered depression so severe that he dropped out of college and confined himself to the apartment, “every up and down. ” For years at a time, the family held on, seemingly by a thread. Over the summer, the younger son, Jesus, 22, got a   job at a Zaro’s Bakery in Manhattan’s financial district. Because the family’s rent is tied to income, the rent tripled in August, to about $770 a month from $245. But Jesus had school bills to pay, and the family paid some of the funeral expenses for José Sr. ’s mother, who died over the summer, and things began to unravel. They fell behind on the rent and utilities. Food was often scarce. The family regularly skipped meals. It was around this time that Ms. Muñiz got in touch with Catholic Charities Archdiocese of New York, one of the eight organizations supported by The New York Times’s Neediest Cases Fund. It covered their back rent, got them warm coats and blankets and helped them apply for food stamps for the first time. And with $600 from the Neediest Cases Fund, the family paid its electric bill. Things are looking up in some ways. Jesus is returning to college, where he is on a   track and wants to be a paramedic. Maria graduated in December from a   nursing program. Thinking of her father and his illness, she wants to be an oncologist. José Jr. was just accepted to the New York Film Academy’s photography program. But José Sr. continues to battle cancer. Zoraida is severely depressed. What keeps her going? she was asked. She gestured toward her family, sitting beside her beneath the painted angels. “They give me my strength, even if I have times I collapse,” she said. José Jr. agreed. “I use my parents and siblings as my motivation,” he said. “We’re all there for each other,” Ms. Muñiz said."
10,17293,Weak Federal Powers Could Limit Trump’s Climate-Policy Rollback - The New York Times,New York Times,Justin Gillis,2017-01-03,2017.0,1.0,,"With Donald J. Trump about to take control of the White House, it would seem a dark time for the renewable energy industry. After all, Mr. Trump has mocked the science of global warming as a Chinese hoax, threatened to kill a global deal on climate change and promised to restore the coal industry to its former glory. So consider what happened in the middle of December, after investors had had a month to absorb the implications of Mr. Trump’s victory. The federal government opened bidding on a tract of the ocean floor off New York State as a potential site for a huge wind farm. Up, up and away soared the offers  —   interest from the bidders was so fevered that the auction went through 33 rounds and spilled over to a second day. In the end, the winning bidder offered the federal Treasury $42 million, more than twice what the government got in August for oil leases  —   oil leases  —   in the Gulf of Mexico. Who won the bid? None other than Statoil, the Norwegian oil company, which is in the midst of a major campaign to turn itself into a big player in renewable energy. We do not know for sure that the New York wind farm will get built, but we do know this: The energy transition is real, and Mr. Trump is not going to stop it. On a global scale, more than half the investment in new electricity generation is going into renewable energy. That is more than $300 billion a year, a sign of how powerful the momentum has become. Wind power is booming in the United States, with the industry adding manufacturing jobs in the reddest states. When Mr. Trump’s appointees examine the facts, they will learn that   technician is projected to be the   occupation in America over the next decade. The election of Mr. Trump left climate activists and environmental groups in despair. They had pinned their hopes on a Hillary Clinton victory and a continuation of President Obama’s strong push to tackle global warming. Now, of course, everything is in flux. In the worst case, with a sufficiently pliant Congress, Mr. Trump could roll back a decade of progress on climate change. Barring some miraculous conversion on Mr. Trump’s part, his election cannot be interpreted as anything but bad news for the climate agenda. Yet despair might be an overreaction. For starters, when Mr. Trump gets to the White House, he will find that the federal government actually has relatively little control over American energy policy, and particularly over electricity generation. The coal industry has been ravaged in part by cheap natural gas, which is abundant because of technological changes in the way it is produced, and there is no lever in the Oval Office that Mr. Trump can pull to reverse that. The intrinsically weak federal role was a source of frustration for Mr. Obama and his aides, but now it will work to the benefit of environmental advocates. They have already persuaded more than half the states to adopt mandates on renewable energy. Efforts to roll those back have largely failed, with the latest development coming only last week, when Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, a Republican, vetoed a rollback bill. The federal government does offer important subsidies for renewable energy, and they will surely become a target in the new Congress. But those subsidies are already scheduled to fall drastically over five years, in a deal cut a year ago that gave the oil industry some favors and that passed Congress with many Republican votes. If Mr. Trump pushes for an early end to the subsidies, he will find that renewable energy has friends in the Republican Party. Topping that list is Charles E. Grassley, the senior senator from Iowa. That state  —     in presidential politics, let us remember  —   will soon be getting 40 percent of its electricity from wind power. “Senator Grassley has been and continues to be an extraordinary leader and champion for the wind industry,” said Tom Kiernan, the head of the American Wind Energy Association, a trade group. When I spoke with him last week, Mr. Kiernan did not sound like a man gnashing his teeth about the impending Trump era. By his group’s calculations, $80 billion of wind industry investment is in the pipeline for the United States over the next few years. “We are creating jobs throughout America,   jobs, and we think   Trump will want that to continue,” he said. If Mr. Trump really wanted to roll back the clock, he could try to get Congress to override all the state mandates, a gross violation of the supposed conservative commitment to federalism. But it would be a titanic fight, some Republican senators would defect on principle, and Mr. Trump would almost certainly lose. So if the damage Mr. Trump can do domestically is limited by circumstance, what about the international effort against global warming? That is the prospect that has David G. Victor most worried. Dr. Victor, a professor at the University of California at San Diego, is one of the closest observers of global climate politics. While the nations of the world agreed a year ago to a landmark deal to tackle global warming, that consensus is fragile, he pointed out. The Paris Agreement is really an outline more promise than reality. Mr. Trump has vowed to withdraw. Right now, other countries are saying they will go forward even if he does so, but it is not hard to imagine the thing unraveling. As part of the negotiations, the Obama administration promised billions of dollars from American taxpayers to help poor countries adjust to the devastation of global warming. “That’s a big part of the glue that held the Paris deal together,” Dr. Victor pointed out. Mr. Trump is considered likely to abandon that pledge. Perhaps the biggest threat to the climate agenda posed by the incoming administration is not anything that Mr. Trump might do, but rather what he will not do. While the energy transition is real, it is still in its earliest stages. Iowa may soon get 40 percent of its power from wind, but for the United States as a whole, the figure is closer to 5 percent. The transition is simply not happening fast enough. The pledges countries made in Paris, even if kept, are not ambitious enough. To meet the climate goals embodied in the Paris Agreement, the world needed an American president who would have pushed hard to accelerate the energy transition. You can debate whether Mrs. Clinton would have been that president, but it is certainly clear that Mr. Trump will not be. So as Washington goes into reverse gear on climate policy, seas will keep rising and heat waves will get worse. Later this month, global monitoring agencies are expected to report that 2016 was the hottest year in the historical record, beating out 2015, which beat out 2014. If nothing else, the next four years may be a fascinating test of just how far politics can become divorced from physical reality."
11,17294,Can Carbon Capture Technology Prosper Under Trump? - The New York Times,New York Times,John Schwartz,2017-01-05,2017.0,1.0,,"THOMPSONS, Tex.  —   Can one of the most promising  —   and troubled  —   technologies for fighting global warming survive during the administration of Donald J. Trump? The technology, carbon capture, involves pulling carbon dioxide out of smokestacks and industrial processes before the   gas can make its way into the atmosphere. Mr. Trump’s denial of the overwhelming scientific evidence supporting climate change, a view shared by many of his cabinet nominees, might appear to doom any such environmental initiatives. But the new Petra Nova plant about to start running here, about 30 miles southwest of Houston, is a bright spot for the technology’s supporters. It is being completed essentially on time and within its budget, unlike many previous such projects. When it fires up, the plant, which is attached to one of the power company NRG’s hulking   units, will draw 90 percent of the CO2 from the emissions produced by 240 megawatts of generated power. That is a fraction of the roughly 3, 700 megawatts produced at this gargantuan plant, the largest in the Lone Star State. Still, it is enough to capture 1. 6 million tons of carbon dioxide each year  —   equivalent to the greenhouse gas produced by driving 3. 5 billion miles, or the CO2 from generating electricity for 214, 338 homes. From a tower hundreds of feet above the Petra Nova operation, the carbon capture system looks like a fever dream of an Erector set fanatic, with mazes of pipes and gleaming tanks set off from the main plant’s skyscraping smokestacks and busy coal conveyors. Petra Nova uses the most common technology for carbon capture. The exhaust stream, pushed down a snaking conduit to the Petra Nova equipment, is exposed to a solution of chemicals known as amines, which bond with the carbon dioxide. That solution is pumped to a regenerator, or stripper, which heats the amine and releases the CO2. The gas is drawn off and compressed for further use, and the amine solution is then cycled back through the system to absorb more CO2. Petra Nova, a   joint venture of NRG and JX Nippon Oil and Gas Exploration, will not just grab the CO2, it will use it, pushing compressed CO2 through a new pipeline 81 miles to an oil field. The gas will be injected into wells, a technique known as enhanced oil recovery, that should increase production to 15, 000 barrels a day from about 300 barrels a day. And since NRG owns a quarter of the oil recovery project, what comes out of the ground will help pay for the carbon capture operation. The plant, which has received $190 million from the federal government, can be economically viable if the price of oil is about $50 a barrel, said David Knox, an NRG spokesman. The company expects to declare the plant operational in January, Mr. Knox said. Aware of problems with carbon capture projects around the country and of the risks of hubris, he said: “We’re not going to declare victory before it’s time. ” If the price of oil stabilizes or rises, and if tax breaks for developing the technology continue and markets for carbon storage develop, he said, utilities might ask, “why would I not want to put a carbon capture system on my plant?” But developing   carbon capture has been neither straightforward nor easy. So far, problems have bedeviled major projects, often costing far more than projected and taking longer to complete. The federal government has canceled projects like Future Gen, which was granted more than $1 billion by the Obama administration. Carbon capture systems are not just expensive to build they tend to be   and make the plant less efficient over all  —   a problem known as “parasitic load. ” The Petra Nova carbon capture process gets its energy from a separate power plant constructed for the purpose, which NRG says makes the system more efficient than it would otherwise be, and frees up all of the capacity of the main power plant to sell all of the electricity it produces. The company estimates that the next plant it builds could cost 20 percent less, thanks to lessons learned this time around. If Petra Nova succeeds, it means a boost for carbon capture. Despite carbon capture’s problems, its supporters, including the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the International Energy Agency, call the technology, known as carbon capture sequestration, crucial for meeting emissions standards that can prevent the worst effects of climate change. “If you don’t have C. C. S. the chance of success goes down, and the cost of success goes up,” said Julio Friedmann, an expert at the Lawrence Livermore Laboratories in California and a former Energy Department official. “If you do have C. C. S. the chance of success goes up and the cost of success goes down. ” Carbon capture is proving itself, said David Mohler, the deputy assistant secretary for clean coal and carbon management at the federal Energy Department. Developing technologies often involves delay and cost overruns initially, he said. “You cannot engineer all the bugs out from inside a cubicle  —   you really have to do this stuff in the real world,” he said. Driving down costs, he noted, is what engineers and businesses do through research, development and production. He cited the plummeting cost of initially expensive technologies like solar power. “We do figure things out as we go,” he said. What the Trump administration will do with carbon capture is, at this point, anyone’s guess. “The technology only makes sense in a world where you are seeking to avoid putting CO2 into the atmosphere,” said Mark Brownstein, a vice president for the climate and energy program at the Environmental Defense Fund. But some supporters of the technology see reasons for hope. “I actually think it’s a moment of optimism,” said Senator Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota, who met with Mr. Trump last month as a potential agriculture secretary. Ms. Heitkamp   legislation  with another Democrat, Senator Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island, to expand and extend tax breaks for carbon capture projects. “What I saw with the   was a laserlike focus on jobs,” she said. “I think he was intrigued” about the economic opportunity that carbon capture could provide to keep coal power generation in the national mix, she added. One of the pillars of Mr. Trump’s campaign was his intention to revive the fortunes of the coal industry through support of   clean coal. And while the exact meaning of the   phrase is open to interpretation, it generally includes not just technologies that remove soot and   pollutants, but also carbon dioxide. Ms. Heitkamp said that businesses, too, were likely to continue development of carbon capture technology, since they planned their plant investments on a curve of decades and are loath to change course because of a single election. “The decision they are making is not, what does the political outlook look like today? What’s it look like over the life of this plant?” Although she concedes that a   revival of coal’s fortunes is unlikely, carbon capture could be a way to extend the life of current facilities while keeping the nation’s energy mix diverse. Jeff Erikson, general manager at the Global C. C. S. Institute, which promotes the technology, said he did not expect to see a great number of new coal plants on the way. “I wouldn’t say carbon capture is going to rescue the coal industry,” he said, but pointed out that there is great potential for applying carbon capture to diverse natural gas plants and to industrial applications. Captured carbon can be used not just for oil production but a widening range of industrial processes, or can even be pumped into the ground. One of the most innovative approaches to carbon capture is being tried 50 miles east of the Petra Nova plant, in La Porte, Tex. where a consortium of companies is trying an entirely new approach to   power generation. In a $140 million, 50 megawatt demonstration project, the company, Net Power, will use superheated carbon dioxide in much the same way that conventional power plants use steam to drive turbines. This system, invented by a British engineer, Rodney Allam, eliminates the inefficiency inherent in heating water into steam and cooling it again. The power plant produces a stream of very pure, pressurized carbon dioxide that is ready for pipelines without much of the additional processing that conventional carbon capture systems require. The creators say that their technology will produce electric power at a price comparable to   power plants, the efficient   plants that burn gas to power one turbine and then use the excess heat from that process to generate additional power with a steam turbine. That means, in effect, that “the cost of being green is zero,” said Bill Brown, the chief executive of Net Power. “The potential to capture CO2 at no additional cost would be a game changer,” said Fatima Maria Ahmad, a fellow at the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions, a think tank. Net Power combines the resources of Exelon Generation, a power company, the engineering and construction firm CBI, and 8 Rivers Capital, which developed the technology used in the project. The centerpiece of the project is a special turbine built by Toshiba and designed for the punishingly high pressure used in the process. And while any system that so closely resembles a rocket engine has the potential for what engineers delicately refer to as a RUD  —   “rapid unplanned disassembly”  —   those working directly on the project say they have designed safety features that give them confidence. Even if the United States government shows little interest in reducing the nation’s carbon footprint under Mr. Trump and a Republican Congress, consortium officials say they expect to find ready customers from companies in the United States and around the globe, where the threat of climate change is fully acknowledged. “We see this very much playing into all parts of the world,” said Daniel McCarthy, executive vice president for CBI’s technology operating group. Environmentalists remain divided on the issue of carbon capture, said John Coequyt, global climate policy director for Sierra Club. “This is the issue where the biggest range of positions exists within the environmental community,” he said. Groups like the Clean Air Task Force favor it strongly. Other factions call clean coal a fig leaf to keep coal, with all of its environmental baggage, in the energy mix. And many suggest the billions of dollars spent on trying to capture carbon would be better directed to the technologies that don’t pollute the atmosphere in the first place. Dr. Friedmann, the former energy official, predicted that the technology would prove its usefulness. “It’s convenient to just say ‘Keep it in the ground,’ ” he said, referring to an   slogan. “What I prefer to say is ‘Keep it from the air. ’”"
13,17296,How to form healthy habits in your 20s - The New York Times,New York Times,Charles Duhigg,2017-01-02,2017.0,1.0,,"This article is part of a series aimed at helping you navigate life’s opportunities and challenges. What else should we write about? Contact us: smarterliving@nytimes. com. When you woke up this morning, what did you do first? Did you hop in the shower, check your email or grab a doughnut? What did you say to your roommates on the way out the door? Salad or hamburger for lunch? When you got home, did you put on your sneakers and go for a run, or eat dinner in front of the television? Most of the choices we make each day may feel like the products of   decision making, but they’re not. They’re habits. And though each habit means relatively little on its own, over time, the meals we eat, how we spend our evenings, and how often we exercise have enormous impacts. This is particularly true in our 20s, when so many of our habits are still up for grabs. The patterns you establish right now will impact your health, productivity, financial security and happiness for decades. How much money you make, how much time you spend with your friends and family, how well your body functions years from now  —   all of these, in many ways, are products of the habits you are building today. (Related: The 8 health habits experts say you need in your 20s) And in the last decade, our understanding of the neurology of habit formation has been transformed. We’ve learned how habits form  —   and why they are so hard to break. We now know how to create good habits and change bad ones like never before. At the core of every habit is a neurological loop with three parts: A cue, a routine and a reward. To understand how to create habits  —   such as exercise habits  —   you must learn to establish the right cues and rewards. In 2002, researchers at New Mexico State University studied 266 individuals, most of whom worked out at least three times a week. They found that many of them had started running or lifting weights almost on a whim, or because they suddenly had free time or wanted to deal with unexpected stresses in their lives. However, the reason they continued exercising  —   why it became a habit  —   was because of a specific cue and a specific reward. If you want to start running each morning, it’s essential that you choose a simple cue (like always lacing up your sneakers before breakfast or always going for a run at the same time of day) and a clear reward (like a sense of accomplishment from recording your miles, or the endorphin rush you get from a jog). But countless studies have shown that, at first, the rewards inherent in exercise aren’t enough. So to teach your brain to associate exercise with a reward, you need to give yourself something you really enjoy  —   like a small piece of chocolate  —   after your workout. This is counterintuitive, because most people start exercising to lose weight. But the goal here is to train your brain to associate a certain cue (“It’s 5 o’clock”) with a routine (“Three miles down! ”) and a reward (“Chocolate! ”). Eventually, your brain will start expecting the reward inherent in exercise (“It’s 5 o’clock. Three miles down! Endorphin rush! ”) and you won’t need the chocolate anymore. In fact, you won’t even want it. But until your neurology learns to enjoy those endorphins and the other rewards inherent in exercise, you need to   the process. And then, over time, it will become automatic to lace up your jogging shoes each morning. You won’t want the chocolate anymore. You’ll just crave the endorphins. The cue, in addition to triggering a routine, will start triggering a craving for the inherent rewards to come. Want more? You might also like: • The scientific   workout • No time to workout? Try exercising on the job • How to pick a health insurance plan"
14,17297,Turning Your Vacation Photos Into Works of Art - The New York Times,New York Times,Stephanie Rosenbloom,2017-04-14,2017.0,4.0,,"It’s the season for family travel and photos  —   and perhaps enlarging some of those images of snowy landscapes or tropical getaways to decorate your home. There are, of course, the usual print services and methods. You can choose a glossy or matte finish, print a photo on canvas, or make it into a poster with a few clicks online at photo sites like Snapfish and Shutterfly, professional photo shops like Adorama and Mpix, or drugstores and   chains like Walgreens and Costco. But the web is also home to many   printing services, as well as uncommon surfaces on which to enlarge photos for display, be it burlap, wood boards, acrylic or    fabric. Why not try some fresh sites and methods? I recently sent some   quality iPhone vacation photos to a handful of companies that I’d never used before and had them enlarged to various sizes and printed on different surfaces. I’ve also offered some guidance about bulk digitizing those boxes of old travel photos sitting in your closet or basement so that you can begin the New Year if not with a vacation, then with a   home. Of all the ways to turn photos into wall art, I was most interested in trying engineer prints, named for the large, lightweight prints used by architects. For less than the cost of a couple of movie tickets, you can make huge enlargements. Mind you, it’s a particular aesthetic, one that’s most likely to appeal to people who are after an industrial, shabby chic or bohemian look. The paper is thin and the lines of the images are softer than a fine art print. And engineer prints need not be formally framed. People stick them to their walls with washi tape, a crafting tape that comes in innumerable colors and prints or they hang the prints using wood poster rails or skeleton clips. For a while, engineer prints from photos were primarily available in black and white, but now you can find them in color, too. One of the easiest ways to order them online is through Parabo Press, which is run by Photojojo, an online photography gear shop, and Zoomin, a photo printing service in Asia. As with all printing sites, you upload your image, zoom in closer if you like, and then click to buy. The site’s engineer prints are 4 feet by 3 feet, and cost $20 in black and white, and $25 in color. I sent out two different photos to be made in black and white, and they came out, to my surprise, beautifully. I was impressed that they were able to be enlarged to such a degree and not look blurry. And the paper (while so thin I was worried about accidentally tearing it) lends it an artful, careless look rather than the expected framed print over the couch. Parabo Press is a breeze to use: It’s clean and easy to read, your options are straightforward, and there are no annoying upsells. The site also offers prints on metal, glass, newsprint and Zines (handmade magazines) calendars photo books and prints from its Risograph machine, which uses   ink and is described by Parabo as having “a cult following since its invention in 1980s Japan. ” A fabric print  —   not soft like a bedsheet, more like a place mat made of matte woven fabric  —   is another departure from a traditional photo enlargement. Order one from a site such as SnapBox and instead of framing it, you can peel and stick it on your wall. The site’s fabric posters adhere to (and can be peeled off) smooth surfaces such as untextured walls, glass, ceilings, tile and finished wood surfaces (avoid surfaces like stucco, concrete blocks, brick, unfinished wood, canvas or freshly painted walls). SnapBox offers fabric posters in more than a dozen sizes from 4x4 to 36x54, from less than $2 to about $80. I ordered a 24x36 fabric poster for $34. 99, a discounted price thanks to a holiday coupon  —   not cheap (you can buy fine art prints on other sites for less) but you’re printing on special material. Regardless of the cost, I expected the finished product to look like the sort of cheap thing one might see in a dorm room (it sticks to walls, after all) but I was pleasantly surprised. The fabric was durable and the details in the photo  —   crevasses in a glacier onlookers on a bridge  —   were nicely defined. SnapBox is a   site with clear instructions and pricing. In addition to fabric posters, it also offers fine art prints, photo books and prints on canvas and pillows. While many places can print photos on hard surfaces such as metal and acrylic, printing on wood boards is less common. The grain shows through your photos, which, thematically speaking, seems to make sense for certain subjects, like nature photos taken at, say, the beach or in a park. But what would something more modern, like a skyscraper or a tower, look like on wood? I decided to give it a try and put an image of Tokyo Tower on an 8x12 board ($65). I sent the photo to PhotoBarn, a family business that makes its products by hand in a “ ” in Tennessee. The result was a lovely departure from framed prints and from canvas, which can sometimes make striking photos look like amateur paintings. The wood was smooth and thick, and the image was crisp with a slight sheen  —   a perfect complement to the steel of Tokyo tower and the silver and glass of surrounding skyscrapers. For the most part the site is intuitive, though a few too many holiday sale buttons on the home page made for a disorienting start. PhotoBarn will also print your photos on canvas, burlap, and other wood products, like ornaments. I noticed a number of complaints about PhotoBarn on Yelp and the Better Business Bureau website regarding shipping speeds and customer service. I didn’t have a problem, but if time is of the essence, you may want to check with the company before placing an order. Once you’ve turned the best of your travel photos into art, it’s time to store the rest. If boxes of prints are taking up closet (and psychic) space, there are plenty of sites online that will scan your old photos (as well as negatives, slides and videos) so you can store them digitally. But there are several things to keep in mind. In general, these sites are a pain to navigate. They’re cluttered with too much text and fine print, and they offer so many options  —   Do you want your photos scanned in order? Do you want both sides of the photo scanned?  —   that if you don’t have a goal in mind before you go in, you can quickly be overwhelmed. Decide ahead of time what exactly you want to scan, how many photos you have and how you might use whatever you scan. Also, note that some of these companies by default send DVDs or CDs of your digital files. Not everyone has a CD or DVD player. If you want a thumb drive instead, be sure to select that option (if it’s offered) or call the company and see if it will provide one. Be aware, too, that it’s not unusual for these companies to have long lead times. A number of them digitize your photos in other countries, so it can take weeks to get your images back. For affordable bulk scans, ScanMyPhotos. com is an old standby (you can read David Pogue’s review on nytimes. com). The company will scan about 1, 800 photos at 300 dpi for $145 at its headquarters in Irvine, Calif. the cost of sending the photo box to you, as well as the shipping of the box to ScanMyPhotos and back to you again is included in the price. That’s one of the least costly and most uncomplicated deals around. Other companies charge for shipping photo boxes. I asked a photo editor at The Times if 300 dpi is sufficient for scanning and she said that to print photos at larger sizes, a higher dpi is preferable. ScanMyPhotos has such an option: a prepaid box for $259 for the same number of scans at 600 dpi instead of 300 dpi. A thumb drive is an additional $15. 95 a box. To find the best   place to scan photos and film, the Wirecutter, a consumer review site owned by The New York Times, researched 37 different scanning services and tested the top 12 contenders. Memories Renewed took the number one spot. The company, based in Minneapolis, Minn. offered “the best combination of price, quality, and turnaround time of any service we tested,” Wirecutter said. I was planning to try the service however, according to the Memories Renewed site, demand is so high at the moment that the lead time for most projects is more than two months. Scanning photos of any size up to 8. 5x11 is 60 cents a photo a thumb drive is $10 for 8 GB or $15 for 16 GB. Let’s say you don’t want to ship your irreplaceable photos in the mail. Or maybe you’d rather that strangers not see your photos and home videos. You could buy a scanner and scan your photos yourself, perhaps doing a batch for half an hour each day. Personally, I don’t want machines around my home collecting dust (and fast becoming outdated). So I decided to try the new PhotoScan app by Google Photos. It’s free and enables users to scan prints with a smartphone. First things first: These are not   scans. If you have prized photos in need of restoration, then go with a professional. However if, like me, you have a bunch of travel photos  —   landscapes, food, monuments  —   that you’re keeping simply because you want to remember where you were when, you may want to consider trying the app instead of giving up some privacy and spending upward of $150. By and large, PhotoScan is simple and quick, with almost no learning curve. If you try it, just make sure to hold your phone level when asked to move it over the image. Remember these words: Don’t tilt your phone! Most of the scans I made looked as good as the prints in terms of color and clarity. That said, this is unlikely to be your solution if you want   prints or have thousands of photos to scan. Once you get the hang of PhotoScan, using it becomes a repetitive, vaguely   activity. That is, unless the app crashes, which it did several times. But I was still glad for it. Even when it crashed, it took only the tap of a finger to begin again. And you can’t beat the price."
16,17300,Dylann Roof Himself Rejects Best Defense Against Execution - The New York Times,New York Times,Kevin Sack and Alan Blinder,2017-01-02,2017.0,1.0,,"  pages into the   journal found in Dylann S. Roof’s car  —   after the assertions of black inferiority, the lamentations over white powerlessness, the longing for a race war  —   comes an incongruous declaration. “I want state that I am morally opposed to psychology,” wrote the young white supremacist who would murder nine black worshipers at Emanuel A. M. E. Church in Charleston, S. C. in June 2015. “It is a Jewish invention, and does nothing but invent diseases and tell people they have problems when they dont. ” Mr. Roof, who plans to represent himself when the penalty phase of his federal capital trial begins on Tuesday, apparently is devoted enough to that proposition (or delusion, as some maintain) to stake his life on it. Although a defense based on his psychological capacity might be his best opportunity to avoid execution, he seems steadfastly committed to preventing any public examination of his mental state or background. “I will not be calling mental health experts or presenting mental health evidence,” he wrote to Judge Richard M. Gergel of Federal District Court on Dec. 16, a day after a jury took only two hours to find him guilty of 33 counts, including hate crimes resulting in death, obstruction of religion and firearms violations. At a hearing on Wednesday, Mr. Roof told the judge that he planned to make an opening statement but not call witnesses or present evidence on his behalf. The testimony presented by prosecutors during the guilt phase of Mr. Roof’s trial detailed with gruesome precision how he had plotted and executed the massacre during a Wednesday night Bible study in the church’s fellowship hall. It was less satisfying in revealing why he had done it. With his choice to sideline his legal team and represent himself, the second phase  —   when the same jury of nine whites and three blacks will decide whether to sentence him to death or to life in prison  —   may prove little different. Death penalty experts said it was exceedingly rare for capital defendants to represent themselves after allowing lawyers to handle the initial part of a case. Mr. Roof, who also faces a death penalty trial in state court, has not publicly explained his reasoning. But legal filings strongly suggest a split with his   defenders about whether to argue that his rampage resulted from mental illness. Mr. Roof’s lead lawyer, David I. Bruck, tried repeatedly to plant that notion during the guilt phase, knowing it might be his only chance. Because evidence of mitigating factors is supposed to be reserved for the penalty phase, Judge Gergel allowed him little leeway. In his closing argument, while acknowledging Mr. Roof’s guilt, Mr. Bruck managed to tell the jury that Mr. Roof subscribed to “the mad idea that he can make things better by massacring the most virtuous, kind and gentle people he could ever have found. ” Mr. Bruck seeded his speech with words like “abnormal,” “irrationality,” “senselessness,” “delusional,” “obsession” and “perseveration,” a psychiatric term referring to the uncontrollable repetition of a particular response. Mr. Bruck, one of the country’s most experienced death penalty litigators, portrayed his    client as a loner whose most meaningful relationship seemed to be with his cat who staged hundreds of photographs of himself with no sign of friends whose racial hatred was ignited by internet searches and not personal experience who could not pinpoint during his confession to the F. B. I. how many he had killed, how long he had spent at the church or even what month it was who had no escape plan and left suicide notes to his parents. “There was something in him that made him feel that he had to do it,” Mr. Bruck said, “and that is as much as he knows. ” After receiving the results of a psychiatric examination in November, Judge Gergel found Mr. Roof competent to stand trial  —   meaning that he was capable of understanding the proceedings and assisting in his defense. At Mr. Bruck’s request, the judge scheduled a second competency hearing for Monday, but he signaled last week that he saw no reason to delay the penalty phase. The judge has repeatedly warned Mr. Roof against representing himself, including immediately after the verdicts, when he called it “a bad decision” and urged him to “fully appreciate the implications. ” The warnings have had no discernible effect on Mr. Roof, who has until Tuesday to reverse his decision to relegate his lawyers to standby counsel. That status allows Mr. Bruck and his team to offer guidance, but not to question witnesses or make objections. Prosecutors plan a procession of grief, perhaps calling dozens of members of victims’ families to testify about the impact of the killings. The prosecutors are also likely to   the considerable evidence of Mr. Roof’s premeditation and clearly articulated racial intent. Death penalty experts said the absence of mental health evidence to mitigate those aggravating factors could be decisive. “If the jury views Roof as evil and having made a knowing, intelligent choice to kill these innocent, churchgoing people in order to foment racial hatred, they are much more likely to impose the death penalty than if they believe him to be a young and severely mentally ill person who acted under delusional racist beliefs,” said Robert Dunham, executive director of the Death Penalty Information Center, a research group. It would take only one holdout on the jury, which consists of 10 women and two men, to spare Mr. Roof from lethal injection. Judge Gergel has ruled that the jurors can be told that prosecutors had rejected Mr. Roof’s offer, through Mr. Bruck, to plead guilty in exchange for a life sentence. Many in Charleston were relieved by Mr. Roof’s conviction in light of the mistrial that had been declared 10 days earlier in the state murder prosecution of Michael T. Slager, the white North Charleston policeman whose fatal shooting of a black motorist in 2015 was captured on video. Even those who oppose the death penalty on moral grounds, like the Rev. Joseph A. Darby, a presiding elder for the African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, said it would seem bewildering for Mr. Roof to escape capital punishment. “That could very well be the end of the death penalty in America, because if there was ever justification for killing anybody, this is the case,” Mr. Darby said. There is no consensus among members of the victims’ families about Mr. Roof’s fate. When the Justice Department elected in May to seek the death penalty, it acted against the wishes of many and of the two women he had spared. Five relatives offered Mr. Roof a measure of forgiveness at a remarkable bond hearing two days after the shootings. But by law, those who testify now are prohibited from telling the jury what penalty they think he should receive. “It’s going to be extremely emotional, powerful testimony,” said John H. Blume, a death penalty expert who teaches at Cornell Law School, “and that emotion could implicitly and misleadingly indicate to the jury that some of these people want the death penalty when it’s not the case. ” If Mr. Roof is sentenced to death, it will be the first time a jury has done so in a prosecution involving the federal hate crimes law, according to experts on capital cases. That statute, which was broadened in 2009, does not carry a potential death sentence, but Mr. Roof was also convicted of other crimes that do. A death sentence most likely would give way to a yearslong series of appeals (in which Mr. Roof could not represent himself). Among the issues could be the composition of the jury, given that Mr. Roof acted rather passively as his own lawyer when it was selected the withholding of evidence on mental health and other mitigating factors and Mr. Roof’s competence to stand trial and to represent himself. In 2008, the Supreme Court ruled in Indiana v. Edwards that trial judges could insist on legal representation for defendants who are “competent enough to stand trial but who suffer from severe mental illness to the point where they are not competent to conduct trial proceedings by themselves. ” Mr. Bruck and his team have argued in court filings that Mr. Roof, a   dropout, “has no right to represent himself in a capital trial, and even less so at the penalty phase. ” But in the 41 years since the Supreme Court recognized a Sixth Amendment right of   for criminal defendants, in Faretta v. California, the court has never specifically narrowed that holding for death penalty trials, despite their complexity. Some death penalty opponents hope that Mr. Roof’s defiance will prompt the appellate courts to adopt a more rigorous standard for capital defendants. “Whether or not they’re legally insane, there’s certainly something mentally wrong with them,” said Peter D. Greenspun, a lawyer who was ousted by a defendant, John A. Muhammad, for part of a capital murder trial for the 2002 sniper attacks in the Washington area. He added, “To have a person like that make this kind of decision, it really calls into question, from a philosophical point of view, whether that person is in a position to understand their civil liberties. ” Mr. Muhammad, who ultimately reinstated Mr. Greenspun, was sentenced to death in 2003 and executed six years later. “It’s something that Roof will likely regret,” Mr. Greenspun predicted of his choice to represent himself. “At some point down the road, he’s going to say, ‘What did I do?’ And there’s no going back. ”"
18,17302,Suicide Bombing in Baghdad Kills at Least 36 - The New York Times,New York Times,The Associated Press,2017-01-03,2017.0,1.0,,"BAGHDAD  —   A suicide bomber detonated a pickup truck loaded with explosives on Monday in a busy Baghdad market, killing at least 36 people hours after President François Hollande of France arrived in the Iraqi capital. The Islamic State later claimed responsibility for the attack. The bomb went off in a produce market that was packed with day laborers, a police officer said, adding that another 52 people were wounded. During a news conference with Mr. Hollande, Haider   Iraq’s prime minister, said the suicide bomber had pretended to be a man seeking to hire day laborers. Once the workers gathered around, he detonated the vehicle. The Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, claimed the attack in a statement circulated on a website that is often used by the group. It was the third such attack in three days in or near Baghdad, underscoring the lingering threat posed by the extremist group despite a string of setbacks for it elsewhere in the country over the past year, including in and around the northern city of Mosul. The attack took place in Sadr City, a vast Shiite district in eastern Baghdad that has been repeatedly targeted by Sunni extremists since the 2003   invasion. Militiamen loyal to the Shiite cleric Moktada   were seen evacuating bodies in their trucks before ambulances arrived. Bodies were scattered across the bloody pavement alongside fruit, vegetables and laborers’ shovels and axes. A minibus filled with dead passengers was on fire. Asaad Hashim, 28, an owner of a nearby cellphone store, described how the laborers had pushed and shoved around the bomber’s vehicle, trying to get hired. “Then a big boom came, sending them up into the air,” said Mr. Hashim, who suffered shrapnel wounds to his right hand. He blamed “the most ineffective security forces in the world” for failing to prevent the attack. An angry crowd cursed the government, even after a representative of Mr. Sadr tried to calm them. Late last month, the Iraqi authorities started removing some of the security checkpoints in Baghdad in a bid to ease traffic for the capital’s six million residents. “We have no idea who will kill at any moment and who’s supposed to protect us,” said Ali Abbas, a    father of four who was hurled over his vegetable stand by the blast. “If the securities forces can’t protect us, then allow us to do the job. ” Several smaller bombings elsewhere in the city on Monday killed at least 20 civilians and wounded at least 70, according to medics and police officials. All officials spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak to reporters. The United States State Department condemned the attacks. Separately, the American military announced on Monday the death of a coalition service member in Iraq in a “  incident,” without providing further details. Mr. Hollande met with Mr. Abadi and President Fuad Masum, and later traveled to the   northern Kurdish region to meet with French troops and local officials. He pledged to help displaced Iraqis return to Mosul, where Iraqi forces are waging a large offensive against the Islamic State. France is part of the   coalition formed in 2014 to fight the Islamic State after the extremist group seized large areas in Iraq and neighboring Syria. France has suffered multiple attacks claimed by the extremist group."
19,17303,Fecal Pollution Taints Water at Melbourne’s Beaches After Storm - The New York Times,New York Times,Brett Cole,2017-01-03,2017.0,1.0,,"SYDNEY, Australia  —   The annual beach pilgrimage during the height of summer in Melbourne, Australia’s   city, is threatened by an unsettling phenomenon: shores where the tides are tainted with excrement. The Environment Protection Authority in the state of Victoria said on Monday that heavy rains had caused fecal pollution to wash into Port Phillip from rivers, creeks and drains. It advised against swimming at 21 beaches because of poor water quality. “It’s poo in all its luxurious forms that is causing the problem,” said Anthony Boxshall, the agency’s manager of applied sciences, noting that the waste was coming from people, dogs, horses, cows, birds and other animals. Fecal pollution can cause serious health problems, including gastroenteritis. Mr. Boxshall said much of the waste had been washed down the   Yarra River that runs through Melbourne into Port Phillip, affecting the city’s bayside beaches the most. The agency, which takes regular water samples, rates beaches. A “good” rating means that the water is suitable for swimming. “Fair” means that rainfall has affected the water. “Poor” means people should avoid it. Residents said that the pollution had deterred them from indulging in a favorite summer ritual. “When the temperature gets above 86 Fahrenheit, Melbournians typically pack the family in the car with food and drink and spend the day at the beach,” said Sam Riley, who lives in the city. “I was going to take my two young boys to the beach myself over the summer, but now I’m concerned about whether the water is clean. ” Mr. Boxshall said any improvement in the beaches’ water quality was uncertain as long as the rain continued. The agency says it usually takes between 24 and 48 hours for the waters to clear after the rain stops."
21,17306,Mariah Carey’s Manager Blames Producers for New Year’s Eve Nightmare - The New York Times,New York Times,Patrick Healy,2017-01-02,2017.0,1.0,,"Mariah Carey suffered through a performance train wreck in Times Square on New Year’s Eve as malfunctions left her at a loss vocally during her hit song “Emotions,” struggling to reach notes and to sync the lyrics and music. The trouble continued when she gave up on another of her   numbers, “We Belong Together,” while a recording of the song continued to play, a confirmation that she had been  . But on Sunday, a dispute erupted between Ms. Carey’s representatives and producers of ABC’s “Dick Clark’s New Year’s Rockin’ Eve With Ryan Seacrest,” on which the singer was performing. Ms. Carey’s manager, Stella Bulochnikov, charged that the show’s producers had been aware of technical problems but did not fix them  —   and chose to continue showing Ms. Carey’s messy performance “to get ratings. ” “I will never know the truth, but I do know that we told them three times that her mike pack was not working and it was a disastrous production,” Ms. Bulochnikov told Us Weekly magazine on Sunday. “I’m certainly not calling the F. B. I. to investigate. It is what it is: New Year’s Eve in Times Square. Mariah did them a favor. She was the biggest star there, and they did not have their” act together. Dick Clark Productions, which produced the show, issued a statement on Sunday night saying that Ms. Carey’s performance woes had nothing to do with the production, and that any suggestion that the company “would ever intentionally compromise the success of any artist is defamatory, outrageous and frankly absurd. ” “In very rare instances, there are of course technical errors that can occur with live television,” the statement said, adding that an initial investigation suggested that the production company “had no involvement in the challenges associated with Ms. Carey’s New Year’s Eve performance. ” A veteran audio producer, Robert Goldstein of Maryland Sound International, a company that has worked on the Times Square event for years, also said in an email that there had been no malfunctions with the sound equipment he oversaw. “Every monitor and   device worked perfectly,” Mr. Goldstein said. “ I can’t comment beyond that and don’t know what her nontechnical issue may have been. ” A spokeswoman for Ms. Carey said on Sunday that the singer was not at fault for her performance. “Unfortunately there was nothing she could do to continue with the performance given the circumstances,” the spokeswoman, Nicole Perna, told The Associated Press. It was a rare meltdown on national television by one of the   recording artists of all time. Ms. Carey, a pop phenomenon in the 1990s who won five Grammys out of 34 nominations over the years, was the final   act on ABC’s “Dick Clark’s New Year’s Rockin’ Eve With Ryan Seacrest. ” She had just finished “Auld Lang Syne” when her star turn began to spiral out of control. “We can’t hear,” she said in the opening seconds of “Emotions” after she sashayed down the stage before more than one million people who had gathered to watch the ball drop in Manhattan. Standing still with her left hand on her hip while music played, Ms. Carey told the audience that there had not been a proper sound check before her performance. Then she said, “We’ll just sing,” and noted proudly of her song, “It went to No. 1. ” But she could not manage the notes that followed, and she either forgot lyrics or did not want to deliver a subpar performance. “We’re missing some of these vocals, but it is what it is,” she said. “Let the audience sing. ” ABC quickly cut to shots of the Times Square crowd as Ms. Carey tried to perform some of her choreography. She continued suggesting fixes from the stage, and at one point seemed to defend herself. “I’m trying to be a good sport here,” she said. When the number ended, the crowd cheered her on. “That was  —   ” she said, pausing for effect, “amazing. ” She seemed to recover at first with “We Belong Together,” but there appeared to be another malfunction, and Ms. Carey again stopped singing. But this time, the prerecorded number kept playing. “It just don’t get any better,” she said, and then left the stage. The cause of the problem was not immediately clear. After the performance, Ms. Carey posted a mildly profane slang phrase on Twitter with an “upset” emoji, then wrote: “Have a happy and healthy new year everybody! Here’s to making more headlines in 2017. ” An ABC spokesman said on Sunday that the network would not comment on the problems with Ms. Carey’s performance."
23,17308,George Michael’s Freedom Video: An Oral History - The New York Times,New York Times,Guy Trebay and Jacob Bernstein,2017-01-01,2017.0,1.0,,"Pop music and fashion never met cuter than in George Michael’s “Freedom! ’90” video. Sure, other catwalk favorites starred in music videos during that era, and fashion photographers like Steven Meisel and Herb Ritts were recruited by stars such as Madonna, Chris Isaak and Janet Jackson to burnish their visuals. But the convergence of a   maker’s irresistible rhythms and lyrics, a group of models at the peak of their fame and a director on the verge of his own runaway success gave “Freedom! ’90” a jolt of stylish energy that has yet to fade after more than a  . Directed by David Fincher, who was at the start of his film career, and filmed over several days at Merton Park Studios in London, the video from Mr. Michael’s 1990 album, “Listen Without Prejudice Vol. 1,” brought together five models  —   Naomi Campbell, Linda Evangelista, Christy Turlington, Cindy Crawford and Tatjana Patitz  —   who were then the queens of fashion. It runs for six and a half minutes, and its production also gathered a team of novice professionals who would go on to become major forces in fashion, including the stylist Camilla Nickerson, the hairdresser Guido Palau, the makeup artist Carol Brown and the model John Pearson. Shot in moody, romantic   tones, “Freedom! ’90” had been viewed more than 37 million times on YouTube by the time of Mr. Michael’s unexpected death at 53 last Sunday. Reached by phone this week, some of the participants recalled their experiences on set, and some of the video’s most ardent fans reflected on its impact. Naomi Campbell, model. We’d done a British Vogue cover with Peter Lindbergh with all of us. I met George in L. A. and he said: “I’ve been told that I need to speak to you to get the girls for the video. What would it take to get you?” We were living in America, so I said you’d have to fly us in, basically. I said yes, and then Christy and Tatjana and everyone came in. The night before the video, I didn’t sleep at all, because we did five shows for Thierry Mugler in Paris. He had 76 models, and it was the big finale of him designing, although none of us knew that then. The last show finished at around 3 o’clock in the morning, and George was there. So from there I went back to my hotel, packed my bags and went on the first flight to London. David Fincher knew exactly what he wanted. He didn’t really give us parts, but he knew exactly which part of the song he wanted each and every one of us to sing. I was more the active one. Cindy was sultry. I don’t think any of us knew what it would become. We knew the song was a hit, but we didn’t know in any way what effect it would have in terms of videos, the way it would affect people. We were all really excited on the day it was going to be aired. They all had great premieres back in the day. They don’t have them anymore. Not that I’ve seen. MTV’s changed. Hasn’t it? I got to see George a little bit more after that because Kate Moss was neighbors with him. When we did the Olympics, he sang there in London. We all did the finale, and he was rehearsing and Kate and I went to watch him with this amazing choir singing “Freedom. ” After, he invited us all back to his home and he had this really nice   in the garden, and we all got to light these wishing lanterns and we all did that together. That’s the memory I’m going to keep. Guido Palau, hairdresser. I don’t know how I got the job. George Michael and David Fincher had seen some of my work in British Vogue. It was a different time then. It was a big, big production, a   video because they had to bring in all the girls. Every girl had a day, though Christy and Linda were there together. My part was to make the girls the best they could look as who they were. They weren’t playing characters. They were playing themselves. And each had their own personality: Linda the comedian, Christy much more classic, Cindy the pinup, Tatjana this kind of film noir, and Naomi a very strong kind of woman. We extracted that from them. They weren’t prodded at all, though there were some surprises, like Linda’s hair, which she’d done for a job for someone else. It wasn’t like I said, “Oh, dye your hair blond,” not at all. At the time, we really didn’t realize how iconic the video would become. I was probably a bit naïve about the whole thing seeing how it was a bit of a   job for me. What I remember most is the days being very long, and at the end of the day, the red wine would come out. There we’d be in the location van drinking and singing with George. Tatjana Patitz, model. I was in my own zone. I had to kind of slide up and down the wall for part of the day. The feel of the set was so   this big, loft kind of vibe. There was another setup with me laying on a chaise longue with a black smoking jacket. I think I may have had a bustier on. And I was smoking, even. People still smoked in videos then and even in films. George Michael wasn’t on the set the day I was there, but I’d met him a few times in L. A. Herb Ritts shot a cover of me and him for a magazine  —   I’m trying to remember what magazine it was. So many magazines have come and gone. Glamour was very present in fashion in those days, feminine glamour, people looking at inspiration from the movie stars of the ’40s and ’50s  —   Audrey Hepburn, Grace Kelly and Ava Gardner. A lot of magazines were pairing models with pop stars or movie stars to shoot covers. It was very different those days. The business was much smaller and wasn’t as saturated, not as fast as it is now. Models were known by their first names, and suddenly the glamour we embodied at that time crossed over to pop music videos and film. We were part of the entertainment industry, which made it really fun. George was very nice, almost a little shy. Maybe that’s the wrong word. He was mellow and kind. I was quite   at the time because I grew up with Wham and their music he was one of my first teenage crushes. In the five or so times I met him, he was always very pleasant and sweet but timid, not one of those vivacious,   people who take a room by storm. I remember the shoot being in fall or early winter. I flew in on the Concorde for the day and flew back to New York right after that. It’s funny. A lot of people were using models in videos then, but this one in particular stood the test of time. It’s not like you look at “Freedom! ’90” now and say, “Oh, my God, it’s so ’80s!” It’s not like “Working Girl. ” John Pearson, model. My agent called up and said: “Hey, do you want to do this video? All the big girls are doing it. ’” Of course I said yes. I was a big George Michael fan. I used to see him all the time in London at the clubs. I arrived at the studios at 3 o’clock in the afternoon and met David Fincher briefly, and then basically sat around all day and watched while Christy and Linda were being shot. There’s one shot where Linda puts her head underneath her sweater that’s amazing. That wasn’t rehearsed. Linda really knows how to use her body to communicate in an elegant way, never cheap and tawdry. George was there, very warm and nice but very shy. The day went long, and the producer said at the end of the day, “Can we shoot you tomorrow?” I didn’t have another job booked, so I said, “Sure. ” Then he said, “Do you mind doing it for nothing?” I said, “No way. ” It was a little bit bolshie of me, but I knew what the girls were getting. In the end, I was paid $15, 000 for the day, which is not bad to hang out with these fabulous, beautiful girls. But I’d been working nonstop for three years, and I wasn’t going to do it for free. And it turned out to be one of those fabulously easy,    jobs, everyone riding on this wave of semistardom and recognition for the models. I really didn’t realize how big it all was at the time. Candis Cayne, actress, model and former drag personality. There was a group of girls in N. Y. C. in the ’90s, and we didn’t want to model ourselves on anything other than the supermodels. Linda and Naomi and Christy. So when the video of “Freedom!” came out and they were all in it, we were obsessed. I used to do shows at Boy Bar, so I decided I was going to do “Freedom!” and got Lina and Mistress Formika and Sherry Vine to play the various parts. I was Linda. She was my favorite. We did the whole thing naked under white sheets. After the very last chorus, we dropped the sheets and were completely naked holding our groin areas. That song meant a lot to us. There were singers we knew were gay then, but no one really talked about it. We just grabbed onto songs and artists who knew who and what we were, whether it was Madonna with “Vogue” and “Truth or Dare” or George Michael with “Freedom!” I don’t know if he was openly gay or not, then. I guess not. But it was almost O. K. because we all knew and it was such a homophobic time. It was so oppressive, particularly when you factor in the AIDS epidemic. To be open would have been a career killer. But going to a club, listening to “Freedom! ,” it was an escape. Alan Hunter, one of the original MTV V. J. s. It was a funny moment in my life. I was driving my kid to day care on a day where I didn’t know where my career had gone. I’d left MTV. My agent wasn’t calling. I was depressed. And I turned on the radio, and on came George Michael’s new song. It was George Michael at the peak of his writing skills. It was such a brilliant   capstone I’d ever heard. It was his    song. He was saying, “Everything that brought me to pop stardom I now disavow. ” Then I saw the video shortly thereafter with all that iconography he’d used in his past, and he literally sets those things on fire and explodes them. The leather jacket he’d worn and the jukebox from “Faith. ” And he just steps away. He wasn’t even in the video. It showed how serious he was, even while he said it all with a lot of love. It was such a joyous song. I actually felt happy. Zac Posen, fashion designer. I was 10 years old, 10 or 11. I’d see it in my living room waiting for Madonna to come on. I probably wanted to be the child in “Open Your Heart. ” But what I remember about “Freedom!” was that it was kind of a seminal predecessor to grunge. Because you have these incredibly glamorous beauties in a very industrial, Corinne Day,   space. There’s water dripping down the walls and George Michael’s leather jacket is on fire, and the models are naked. It was really the glamour of the ’80s transitioning into something more raw that was to come."
25,17311,Republicans Stonewalled Obama. Now the Ball Is in Their Court. - The New York Times,New York Times,Carl Hulse,2017-01-03,2017.0,1.0,,"WASHINGTON  —   It’s   or   time for Republicans. After a tumultuous decade that has seen profound changes in the makeup and character of their party, Republicans are poised to complete their slow but steady climb back to power as they seize control of the House, Senate and the White House for the first time since 2006. That political triad will leave them with a splendid opportunity for success. But there is little room for failure if they hope to satisfy their impatient constituents and deliver on bold promises to reshape the nation’s health care delivery system, restructure the tax code, drive job creation, muscle up American foreign policy, rebuild a crumbling infrastructure and set America on a new course. Republicans who will take command of the Senate and House as the 115th Congress convenes on Tuesday have long been itching for a chance to do it their way, constantly grousing that President Obama and Congressional Democrats held back American progress and economic growth. Now they must show they can deliver. And they know it. “When you have both houses and the presidency, there is no acceptable excuse for not passing major legislation,” said Representative Tom Cole, a senior Republican from Oklahoma. “There is a lot of pressure on Republican members to produce and to produce quickly. ” That will not be easy. There is a mutual wariness between many Republicans in Congress and   Donald J. Trump, leaving it unclear how often their interests and priorities will coalesce or collide. Some of the biggest fights might well be between Republicans on Capitol Hill and the White House occupied by a man who campaigned against the establishment and some of the very Republicans running Congress. Republicans must also maneuver while facing slightly expanded Democratic minorities in the House and Senate, in a climate that is, in many respects, even more hostile than it was before the November elections. Democrats remain angry at how Republicans treated President Obama, including their refusal to consider the nomination of federal Judge Merrick B. Garland to the United States Supreme Court. Democrats want payback for the cold shoulder given to Mr. Garland’s nomination to satisfy themselves and to show their supporters that they are not going to roll over for the new Republican government. While they cannot employ the filibuster to block most nominations, they still retain it for Supreme Court picks and legislation  —   at least for now. Perhaps most important, Republicans themselves are going to need something of an attitude adjustment. The contemporary Republican Party has been built out of fierce opposition to Mr. Obama and deep disdain for activist government. Nearly   of current House Republicans have never served with a Republican president and their entire time in Washington has been spent fighting the executive branch. As a result, Republicans have had the luxury of being able to argue for positions that appealed to their conservative base but that they knew would not become law because Senate Democrats would block them or because the president would veto them. Now, if they can assemble the votes, their ideas will become law  —   with all the attendant consequences. Republicans who have shied from the responsibility of government will now be called upon to support increases in the debt limit, approve annual budgets, endorse spending bills and back other   measures that they formerly left to the Democrats and some of their more compromising colleagues. With Democrats unlikely to help on many of those votes after being castigated for them by Republicans, the Republicans who belonged to the “vote no, hope yes” caucus when it came to critical legislation in recent years now will have to vote yes and hope things go well. This isn’t the same style of Republican majority pushed from power after being routed in the 2006 midterm elections after the public backlash to the administration of President George W. Bush and his handling of the war in Iraq. Forged by the Tea Party revolt that restored Republicans to control of the House in the 2010 elections, and in the Senate in 2014, this party is much more conservative with a membership that tends to see government as an impediment to be leveled, not as a force to be shaped to their views to the benefit of their constituents. Eight years of railing against the Obama administration has infused them and their constituents with a hostility and disregard for the government that Republicans must now lead rather than ridicule. Tensions could arise between House and Senate Republicans as well. When the Newt   party took over the House in 1995 for the first time in four decades, newly empowered Republicans sent a raft of legislation to the Senate, only to see it stall there. With President Bill Clinton in the White House at the time, Republicans knew much of it would not be enacted. Now, with Mr. Trump soon to occupy the Oval Office, it is unlikely that House Republicans will be willing to watch Democrats bottle up legislation in the Senate. Demands that their Senate counterparts eliminate the filibuster could mount quickly. While they understand the challenges, Republicans are nonetheless jubilant at their enviable position. “A Republican in the White House and a Republican majority in Congress present tremendous opportunity to make real progress,” Senator Cory Gardner, Republican of Colorado, said in the party’s weekly radio address on Saturday. “We assume that responsibility with the promise that we’ll work hard to do everything that we can to deliver more opportunities to Americans tomorrow than they have today. ” “I am pretty giddy,” said Mr. Cole as he looked ahead. Republicans have won their chance. Now it is time to see what they can do with it."
27,17313,Inside Trump Defense Secretary Pick’s Efforts to Halt Torture - The New York Times,New York Times,Sheri Fink and Helene Cooper,2017-01-05,2017.0,1.0,,"The body of the Iraqi prisoner was found naked and badly bruised in 2003, outside a detention center in southern Iraq run by United States Marines. The    man had been beaten, deprived of sleep, forced to stand for long periods and interrogated by Marines about his alleged role in a fatal ambush of American forces. James N. Mattis,   Donald J. Trump’s nominee for secretary of defense, was then a major general and the commander of the Marine division in Iraq responsible for the center. He quickly convened an inquiry into the death, which led to   and banned the harsh techniques used at the prison. “General Mattis was all up in arms over this,” Ralph Dengler, then a lieutenant colonel, testified at a military hearing in January 2004. He added that the commander, who arrived hours after the discovery on a planned visit with his British counterpart, had immediately described the death as “the worst thing that happened” under his watch in the Iraq war. “I was surprised that he would have felt that strongly about it, considering many of the other deaths, including American deaths,” Colonel Dengler said. Colleagues say the general’s handling of the episode reflects his firmly held views against torture and prisoner mistreatment, which are shared by many military leaders and could put them at odds with the new commander in chief. Mr. Trump, in a New York Times interview in late November, said he had been surprised to learn that the man he was considering to lead the country’s 2. 2 million service members did not believe in torture. During the presidential campaign, Mr. Trump advocated bringing back the   practice of waterboarding, adding that “only a stupid person would say it doesn’t work. ” General Mattis does not support abusive techniques, let alone waterboarding. “Give me a pack of cigarettes and a couple of beers,” he told Mr. Trump during their meeting in November, according to the   “and I do better with that than I do with torture. ” The general’s beliefs were shaped by his military training, but also by his experiences in dealing with issues related to torture or mistreatment, according to an examination of his nearly   career and interviews with former colleagues and friends. General Mattis led the United States Central Command from August 2010 to March 2013. Lt. Col. T. G. Taylor, who was General Mattis’s spokesman during much of that time, said in an interview that the commander had spoken of America as needing to hold the moral high ground. Failing to uphold important principles “makes it easier for a soldier or a Marine to ask, ‘What am I fighting for? ’” Colonel Taylor said. “That is something that General Mattis is keenly aware of,” he added. As a young officer, General Mattis would have been instructed in the laws of war, including the Geneva Conventions, which, among other protections, require humane treatment of prisoners of war. A Marine who enlisted in 1969 while attending college  —   part of an R. O. T. C. program during the height of the Vietnam War  —   he did not deploy to Vietnam. But, several friends say, he believed that American prisoners of war were more likely to be tortured by the Vietcong if the United States tortured enemy captives. In 2006, General Mattis supported Gen. David H. Petraeus of the Army and other military leaders in the development of a new counterinsurgency field manual that highlighted limits on interrogation tactics. “Torture and cruel, inhuman, and degrading treatment is never a morally permissible option, even if lives depend on gaining information,” the manual said. “Lose moral legitimacy, lose the war. ” General Mattis later agreed in a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing that it was inappropriate for the military to support the use of abusive techniques on detainees  —   including waterboarding, forced nudity and sensory deprivation, tactics inflicted on prisoners during interrogations in secret C. I. A. prisons in the years after the 2001 terrorist attacks. Those techniques had been modeled on a military training program operated by the Joint Personnel Recovery Agency, which later fell under the general’s command. That program, Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape, also known as SERE, exposed United States soldiers and other service members to techniques that an enemy violating the laws of war might use so that Americans could be better prepared to resist them. The experience typically led trainees to conclude that tortured prisoners of war will say whatever they need to in order to stay alive, whether true or not. A recent investigation by The New York Times found that many terrorism suspects subjected to harsh tactics in C. I. A. jails or American military prisons had lasting mental health problems that were similar to those experienced by some American former P. O. W.s who suffered horrific abuses in Vietnam or Korea. As a commander in Afghanistan and later in Iraq, and as an overall leader of the American war effort, General Mattis often grappled with the consequences of the C. I. A. ’s treatment of prisoners and the harsh conditions at the military detention center at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba. They became a powerful recruiting tool for jihadis who threatened American forces in the field. Testifying at a Senate hearing in 2015 after his retirement, General Mattis opposed the release, before the end of hostilities, of prisoners who had fought against the United States. However, he added, they should be treated humanely, in accordance with international and domestic law. “I would go by the Geneva Conventions, and maintain them, with Red Cross oversight, until the war is over,” he told lawmakers. Torture is not effective in eliciting intelligence, the general felt. “For his whole career, he’s believed that it just doesn’t pay dividends,” said a retired senior United States military officer who is close to General Mattis but spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of alienating Mr. Trump. The “pack of cigarettes” reference, according to people who served with the general, reflects two tenets that are drummed into future military leaders: that information gleaned from torture is unreliable, and that   can go a long way. “I’m not in his head, but what General Mattis was saying is that offering a modicum of friendship and humanity to someone in a desperate situation is more successful than physical torture,” Colonel Taylor said. Hope Hicks, a spokeswoman for Mr. Trump’s transition team, declined requests for more detail on the  ’s discussions with General Mattis or on the source of General Mattis’s beliefs and any further thoughts Mr. Trump has had about the use of torture. General Mattis declined to be interviewed. Many American military leaders maintain that the Bush administration’s departure from established practices in allowing harsh coercive techniques  —   government lawyers had said they did not meet the legal definition of torture, and had declared that detainees were not protected by the Geneva Conventions  —   tainted the United States’ reputation while not yielding results. “Ineffective, war crime, against our values, moral high ground, et cetera,” Donald J. Guter, a retired rear admiral and the dean of the South Texas College of Law, said in explaining objections to brutal treatment. “A very practical reason is that it opens the door for our own troops to be tortured, and we have no basis to object. If we torture, we’ve lost who we are. ” The Department of Defense has clear policies on the humane treatment of detainees. For example, the Army field manual’s section on intelligence collection states: “Use of torture is not only illegal but also it is a poor technique that yields unreliable results. ” The manual adds, “Cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment is prohibited. ” As a commander in Iraq, General Mattis ordered several investigations into detainee abuse. One of the most significant concerned the 2003 death at a makeshift detention and interrogation center in an abandoned Iraqi Army barracks in southern Iraq, christened Camp Whitehorse. Prisoners were held by United States Marine reservists in extreme heat in a dirty, stone building that had been looted of all amenities by Iraqis during the   invasion. The prisoner who died, Nagem Sadoon Hatab, had been arrested days earlier on suspicion of involvement in a deadly ambush of a United States Army convoy that led to the capture of Jessica Lynch, a    private who was later rescued. Mr. Hatab was alleged to have killed American service members and sold an   rifle taken from one of them. Mr. Hatab failed to stand up while being subjected to     treatment  —   forced standing for 50 minutes of each hour, for up to 10 hours. The objective was to make the detainees tired, stressed and submissive for interrogators, witnesses later said in military court hearings. Like other prisoners at the center, Mr. Hatab was hooded and his hands were restrained behind his back with plastic ties. He was beaten severely by Marine guards after refusing to comply with the forced standing and  . He also underwent questioning by a special Marine interrogation squad. A Marine guard later testified that he had often heard yelling, screaming and banging from the interrogation room, a converted bathroom. After midnight on June 6, 2003, Mr. Hatab was found dead in a courtyard where he had been left lying for hours, his body covered in his own feces. An armed forces medical examiner categorized the death as a homicide. Mr. Hatab had six broken ribs and had suffocated from a broken bone in his throat after being dragged outside by his neck, the examiner concluded. Eight Camp Whitehorse personnel were charged with crimes, including negligent homicide. But the investigator appointed by General Mattis, Col. William B. Gallo, later cited problems with the autopsy and could not determine which of the attacks on Mr. Hatab, if any, might have been lethal. In Colonel Gallo’s opinion, the   treatment did not amount to torture, but the command had failed to provide adequate predeployment training in handling prisoners and in the law of war. Evidence, including certain photographs of the prisoner and a summary of an interrogation he underwent, had been lost or destroyed, complicating the investigation and prosecution. Two Marines, a major and a sergeant, were eventually convicted of lesser charges. Mr. Hatab’s death clearly had an effect on General Mattis. According to reports at the time, he ordered a review of the procedures for handling prisoners, which resulted in a ban of   tactics, including the forced standing. Marine Corps personnel running detention camps were given more training, and a manual was compiled to explain each step of the process. Still, there were several other instances of prisoner abuse involving the division. Later, aiming to earn the trust of the Iraqi people after the first phase of combat had ended, General Mattis added an addendum to the motto of his Marines: “No better friend, no worse enemy. ” The addition was, “First, do no harm. ”"
28,17314,ISIS Claims Responsibility for Istanbul Nightclub Attack - The New York Times,New York Times,Tim Arango,2017-01-03,2017.0,1.0,,"ISTANBUL  —   The Islamic State on Monday issued a rare claim of responsibility for an attack in Turkey after a New Year’s Day shooting at an Istanbul nightclub that killed at least 39 people, describing the gunman who carried out the assault  —   and who has not been identified or captured  —   as “a hero soldier of the caliphate. ” The Turkish authorities are still searching for the gunman, who killed a police officer guarding the Reina nightclub before going on a shooting rampage with a   rifle, but the state news media reported that eight suspects had been detained in connection with the attack. The authorities on Monday released two photographs of the person suspected of being the gunman, captured by security cameras, that showed a   cleanshaven man in a dark winter coat. The government’s spokesman, Numan Kurtulmus, said at a news conference that investigators believed they found the assailant’s fingerprints and that they were close to identifying him. Mr. Kurtulmus did not mention the Islamic State specifically, but he said Turkey would press the fight against terrorism. Referring to the attack, which happened just after midnight on Sunday morning, Mr. Kurtulmus said: “The fact that it was done during the first minutes of 2017 gives an important message. The message is, ‘We will go on to menace Turkey in 2017.’ And we say to them, we will break into your caves wherever you are. ” The Turkish newspaper Hurriyet reported on Monday that the gunman might be from Kyrgyzstan or elsewhere in Central Asia. The Russian news agency Interfax quoted Aiymkan Kulukeyeva, a spokeswoman for the Foreign Ministry in Kyrgyzstan, as saying, “According to preliminary information, this information is doubtful, but we are checking all the same. ” The Islamic State asserted in a statement that the attack had been carried out “in continuation of the blessed operations that the Islamic State is conducting against Turkey, the protector of the cross. ” “A hero soldier of the caliphate attacked one of the most famous nightclubs, where Christians celebrated their pagan holiday,” read the statement from the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL. “They used hand grenades and a machine gun and transformed their celebration to mourning. ” In an apparent reference to Turkey’s role in the conflict in Syria, the statement warned that “the government of Turkey should know that the blood of Muslims, which it is targeting with its planes and its guns, will cause a fire in its home by God’s will. ” The statement did not name the assailant, and it was not clear whether the Islamic State had organized the attack or had merely inspired the gunman. But the shooting came just days after a   State group, the Nashir Media Foundation, published the latest in a series of messages calling for attacks on clubs, markets and movie theaters. The Islamic State’s claim of responsibility came after years of complex relations between the Turkish state and the jihadist group operating across its southern border. Several terrorist attacks in Turkey over the last year have been attributed to the Islamic State, but the militant group rarely claims responsibility for major attacks in the country. A rare exception came in November, when the group claimed to be behind a deadly car bombing in southeastern Turkey. Analysts said that the Islamic State has walked a fine line in Turkey, trying to balance its goal of destabilizing the country without antagonizing the government to the extent that it would crack down heavily. For years, Turkey looked the other way, according to analysts and regional diplomats, as jihadist groups moved fighters and supplies across the border, establishing deep networks in Turkish border towns. Committed to supporting the uprising against President Bashar   of Syria, Turkey felt the jihadists could be managed while they fought with forces loyal to the Syrian government. But that policy ultimately changed, as Turkey worked to secure its borders, under pressure from its allies as it took in millions of Syrian refugees and as terrorist attacks rocked the country. Turkey began a military intervention in northern Syria in August that put its forces on the front lines against Kurdish militants as well as Islamic State fighters. This turned the jihadists decidedly against Turkey, prompting their leaders to call for attacks there. The Turkish military said on Monday that it had struck Islamic State targets in Syria, killing at least 22 militants. American intelligence officials had recently expressed concern about a possible attack in Turkey, warning in a statement on Dec. 22 that extremist groups were “continuing aggressive efforts to conduct attacks throughout Turkey” in areas where American citizens and expatriates lived or visited. That warning came three days after a gunman, described by Turkish officials as a      police officer, assassinated Andrey G. Karlov, the Russian ambassador to Turkey, at an art gallery in the capital, Ankara. The gunman shouted “God is great!” and “Don’t forget Aleppo, don’t forget Syria!” during the attack, which was captured on video. The   Anadolu news agency said that 38 of the 39 people who died in the attack on Sunday had been identified, The Associated Press reported. At least two dozen of the people killed were said to be foreigners."
29,17317,The Afghan War and the Evolution of Obama - The New York Times,New York Times,Mark Landler,2017-01-17,2017.0,1.0,,"WASHINGTON  —   President Obama’s advisers wrestled with an intractable problem in the spring and summer of 2015: How could they stabilize Afghanistan while preserving Mr. Obama’s longtime goal of pulling out the last American troops before he left office? As it happened, the president solved the problem for them. In early August of that year, when Mr. Obama convened a meeting of the National Security Council, he looked around the table and acknowledged a stark new reality. “The fever in this room has finally broken,” the president told the group, according to a person in the meeting. “We’re no longer in   mode. ” What Mr. Obama meant was that no one in the Situation Room that day, himself included, thought that the United States  —   after 14 years of war, billions of dollars spent and more than 2, 000 American lives lost  —   would ever transform Afghanistan into a semblance of a democracy able to defend itself. At the same time, he added, “the counterterrorism challenges are real. ” As bleak as Afghanistan’s prospects were, the United States could not afford to walk away and allow the country to become a seedbed for extremists again. A few weeks later, the president halted the withdrawal and announced that he would leave thousands of American troops in the country indefinitely. It was a crucial turning point in the evolution of Barack Obama. The antiwar candidate of 2008 who had pledged to turn around Afghanistan  —   the “good war” to George W. Bush’s “bad war” in Iraq  —   had conceded that the longest military operation in American history would not end on his watch. The optimistic president who once thought Afghanistan was winnable had, through bitter experience, become the commander in chief of a forever war. He remains defensive about the lessons of that journey. “We shouldn’t assume that every time a country has problems that it reflects a failure of American policy,” the president said in an interview in September. Now, as Mr. Obama prepares to turn the war over to Donald J. Trump, a leader even more skeptical than he is about the value of American engagement in foreign conflicts, Afghanistan captures the disillusionment of a man who believed, as he put it in his 2009 Nobel Peace Prize acceptance speech, “that war is sometimes necessary, and war at some level is an expression of human folly. ” More than any other conflict, Afghanistan shaped Mr. Obama’s thinking on the basic questions of war, peace and the use of military power. It is where he discovered his affinity for drones, sharpened his belief in the limits of American intervention, battled his generals and hardened his disdain for unreliable foreign leaders. It reaffirmed his suspicions about sending American troops into foreign conflicts and made him reluctant to use more force in Iraq, Syria, Libya and other war zones. It also chastened him about his own hopes. “When it comes to helping these societies stabilize and create a more secure environment and a better life for their people, we have to understand,” he said in the interview, “that this is a long slog. ” Mr. Obama was a state senator from Illinois in October 2002 when he famously condemned Iraq as a “dumb war. ” But in the same speech he also said, “I don’t oppose all wars. ” He was referring to Afghanistan, which he viewed as a just war to hunt down the perpetrators of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. “I would willingly take up arms myself to prevent such tragedy from happening again,” he told the crowd that day in Chicago’s Federal Plaza. By July 2008, as the Democratic nominee for president, Mr. Obama had embraced Afghanistan as a priority over Iraq  —   the “good war,” in a phrase that he never actually used himself but that became so associated with his approach it was sometimes wrongly attributed to him. Mr. Obama praised the Bush administration’s troop surge in Iraq that year not because he believed that the United States could transform Iraqi society, but because he thought that reducing the violence there would allow the nation to turn its attention to Afghanistan. “This is a war that we have to win,” he declared. He promised to send at least two more combat brigades, or roughly 10, 000 soldiers, to Afghanistan. The United States was hardly on course for victory. Although there were already close to 50, 000 American troops in Afghanistan as Mr. Obama campaigned that summer, the Taliban were gaining momentum. In a bloody debacle, nine American soldiers were killed in what became known as the Battle of Wanat when the Taliban brazenly overran a remote Army outpost in the far eastern province of Nuristan. Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, echoed Mr. Obama in calling the situation in the country “precarious and urgent. ” More than 100 Americans would die in Afghanistan by the end of 2008, a larger number than in any other prior year. When Mr. Obama took office in January 2009, he ordered a quick policy review on Afghanistan by a former intelligence analyst, Bruce Riedel. But even before it was completed, he accepted a Pentagon recommendation to send 17, 000 additional troops to Afghanistan, bringing the total to nearly 70, 000 American troops on the ground. By the fall of 2009, with the Taliban showing increased strength, Mr. Obama’s military commanders, backed by the elders on his war council, including Hillary Clinton, then his secretary of state, were pressing him to go much farther. They urged on him an ambitious counterinsurgency strategy that had helped turn around the war in Iraq  —   a     expensive doctrine of trying to win over the locals by building roads, bridges, schools and a   government. The strategy, known by its acronym COIN, would require as many as 40, 000 additional American men and women in uniform in Afghanistan, his advisers told him. “There was still the afterglow of the surge in Iraq, and the counterinsurgency narrative that had made the military the savior of the Iraq war,” said Vali R. Nasr, a former State Department adviser on Afghanistan and Pakistan. “I don’t believe Obama was in a position to pick a debate with the military on Afghanistan, and to assert what would be his worldview. ” “In many ways, I think, he deferred,” said Mr. Nasr, now the dean of the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies. Although Mr. Obama agreed after months of internal debate to send 30, 000 additional troops to Afghanistan, he placed a strict timetable on the mission, saying they would have to be withdrawn again, starting in July 2011. His aides later said he felt hijacked by a military that had presented him with a narrow band of options rather than a real choice. Even some former military commanders agreed, saying that the troop deployments were framed in a way that made choosing a smaller number  —   20, 000, for example  —   look like a path to certain defeat. “President Obama was asking the military for broad options,” said Karl W. Eikenberry, a retired general who served as the commander in Afghanistan from 2005 to 2007 and was later Mr. Obama’s ambassador to Kabul. But, he said, the military gave Mr. Obama only “variations” on “the more robust counterinsurgency model. ” Mr. Eikenberry, who wrote a politically explosive but prescient cable in late 2009 raising doubts about the wisdom of the surge, diagnosed a deeper problem with the policy. Was it simply to prevent Afghanistan from being a safe haven for Al Qaeda? Or was it to turn Afghanistan into another Denmark? “When he came in, everyone knew we were going to do more,” Mr. Eikenberry said. “But what we were trying to achieve was difficult to define. ” Given Mr. Obama’s innate wariness of   it didn’t take long for him to grow disenchanted with the Denmark option. A few months into the surge, in the spring of 2010, David H. Petraeus, the commander of the Pentagon’s Central Command and an architect of the strategy, was briefing him on the state of the counterinsurgency campaign. Drawing on anthropology theory from the University of Chicago, General Petraeus explained to his commander in chief how neighborhoods in Kandahar related to one another. Mr. Obama listened for a while, then cut him off. “We can’t worry about how neighborhoods relate to each other in Kandahar,” he curtly told General Petraeus, according to people in the room. “Obama believes the military can do enormous things,” said Benjamin J. Rhodes, the deputy national security adviser. “It can win wars and stabilize conflicts. But a military can’t create a political culture or build a society. ” By the end of his first term, Mr. Obama had evolved to the point that he fully embraced the concept “Afghan good enough. ” The phrase, which had been kicked around the White House since 2010, referred to the shift away from   to a policy that was content with taking out the terrorists, preventing the Taliban from overrunning the country and putting a premium on getting the troops out. By that new standard, things had improved in Afghanistan. By August 2010, 100, 000 American troops were on the ground in Afghanistan and were pushing back the Taliban in some critical areas. Despite uneven progress in the military campaign, Ryan Crocker, a diplomat who had reopened the American Embassy in Kabul in 2002 and served there again as ambassador in 2011, recalled thinking, “Wow, this place looks great!” The Navy SEAL raid that killed Osama bin Laden in Pakistan in May 2011 added to Mr. Obama’s conviction that he was on the way to closing the books on the war. At midnight on May 1, 2012, Air Force One rolled out from behind a hangar at Joint Base Andrews to pick up the president for a secret trip to Afghanistan. He was going to sign a strategic partnership agreement with President Hamid Karzai that set the terms for relations after 2014, when the United States was scheduled to withdraw its combat troops and turn over Afghanistan’s security to the Afghans. Aides to Mr. Obama had advised him not to go for security reasons, but he saw it as an important milestone. The agreement promised an “enduring partnership” between the United States and Afghanistan, with pledges of American help in developing the Afghan economy and public institutions. Yet the promises obscured a starker reality: Mr. Obama had accelerated the timetable for drawing down American troops, and he was looking beyond the war. Speaking to a national TV audience from Bagram Air Base, he suggested that America’s experience in Afghanistan had come full circle. “One year ago, from a base here in Afghanistan, our troops launched the operation that killed Osama bin Laden,” he said. “The goal I set  —   to defeat Al Qaeda, and deny it a chance to rebuild  —   is now within our reach. ” Earlier, Mr. Obama had met for an hour with Mr. Karzai. The two had long had a rocky relationship  —   on an earlier trip, Mr. Obama excoriated Mr. Karzai for the rampant corruption in the Afghan government  —   and this session did little to improve their rapport. Mr. Crocker recalled that the president was “very aloof, almost cold, which bothered me a bit because I’d worked a solid damn year to get Karzai in a better place with us. ” Things never warmed up between them. When Mr. Karzai refused to sign a   security agreement with Washington, Mr. Obama gave up on him to focus on his successor, Ashraf Ghani. The experience left a lasting imprint on the president, his aides said. He concluded that without the right partner, it was impossible for the United States to succeed, no matter how much blood and treasure it poured into a country. It was an insight that Mr. Obama applied to his relations with other countries, from Pakistan to Israel, where his poor relationships with the leaders impeded progress. “The most underappreciated part of foreign policy,” Mr. Rhodes said, “is dealing with flawed partners. ” When Mr. Obama convened his National Security Council that day in August 2015, the Taliban were regrouping again. They had carried out audacious terrorist attacks in the center of Kabul and had mounted a military offensive in the provinces of Kunduz and Oruzgan. Worse, there was a new threat in the form of the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, which sprouted in the poisonous soil of Iraq after the United States left and was finding recruits in the Hindu Kush. Mr. Obama had rejected a chorus of calls in Washington to delay the drawdown, under which the residual force of American troops was to leave Afghanistan by the end of 2016. “The mantra I heard was that the president does not want to hand off to his successor the mess he inherited,” said Daniel F. Feldman, who served as the special representative to Afghanistan and Pakistan in 2014 and 2015. But as the Islamic State became a dire enough threat to return American troops to Iraq, Mr. Obama felt compelled to change course on Afghanistan. “ISIL thrived in a vacuum in Iraq and it pointed to a similar vacuum in Afghanistan,” Mr. Rhodes said. Mr. Obama, he said, was prodded by more than fear. After a long stretch of political paralysis, Afghanistan formed a government with Mr. Ghani in the presidency. For the first time since taking office, Mr. Obama felt like he had a partner with whom he could do business. The   Afghan Army was taking heavy casualties fighting the Taliban, and the president believed that the United States had an obligation to help them. But as Mr. Obama’s war council met that August morning, the level of American support remained the subject of intense debate. Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. a skeptic about Afghanistan going back to 2009, argued that the country would revert to chaos, regardless of how long the United States stayed there. “It doesn’t matter if we leave tomorrow or 10 years from now,” he declared, according to those in the room. He was, he conceded, a “broken record” on this issue. Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, who had succeeded Admiral Mullen as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, recommended that the United States maintain a military presence in Kabul, and at Bagram and a scattering of bases in the east and south. The 10, 000 soldiers in the country would carry out a singular, ruthless mission of killing suspected terrorists and keeping the country from spiraling out of control. The imperative, General Dempsey told Mr. Obama, was that Afghanistan fit into a broader counterterrorism policy from Central Asia to North Africa to extend “well beyond your presidency,” according to several officials. Mr. Obama liked that idea. It was in line, he said, with the principles he had laid out in a 2014 speech at the United States Military Academy in West Point, N. Y. where he said America would train and equip foreign armies but leave the   fighting to them. He acknowledged that it would mean handing off Afghanistan to his successor as unfinished business. “This goes to the politics of what I’m leaving for the next president,” he told the group, according to one of the participants. “My interest is not to sign them up for 10 years of X,” he added, referring to troop numbers, “but to lay out a vision and to put stakes in the ground for that vision. ” Mr. Obama now seems at an uneasy peace. In the interview in September, he disputed the suggestion that his policy had failed. He had, after all, reduced the number of American troops to fewer than 10, 000 from more than 100, 000. They were training and assisting Afghan troops, even if the line between that and actual combat was sometimes blurry. The country had been broken to begin with, he said, and America was never going to fix it. “Afghanistan was one of the poorest countries in the world with the lowest literacy rates in the world before we got there. It continues to be,” Mr. Obama said. The country “was riven with all kinds of ethnic and tribal divisions before we got there. It’s still there. ” In the end, Afghanistan became the template for a new kind of warfare  —   a chronic conflict, across an arc of unstable states, in which the United States is a participant, if not the principal actor. At a NATO summit meeting in Warsaw in July, Mr. Obama acknowledged that this prospect would disappoint an American public still suffering from combat fatigue. “It’s very hard for us ever to get the satisfaction of MacArthur and the emperor meeting, and a war being officially over,” he said. “As commander in chief of the most powerful military in the world,” he went on, “I spend a lot of time brooding over these issues. And I’m not satisfied we’ve got it perfect yet. ”"
30,17318,Tips for Your Post-Holiday Clutter Purge - The New York Times,New York Times,Michelle Higgins,2017-04-11,2017.0,4.0,,"With the year winding down and New Year’s resolutions just around the corner, it’s time to gear up for that   clutter purge. But the thought of tackling the kitchen junk drawer  —   or even taking down the decorations  —   can be overwhelming. So to help motivate you, several organizing professionals offered tips on how to streamline your closets, beat back the toys taking over the living room and, yes, finally deal with that junk drawer. START WITH THE HOLIDAY TRAPPINGS To keep plastic ornaments and Hanukkah candles organized, use small containers you already have on hand, like popcorn and cookie tins or empty shoeboxes and egg cartons. Wrap fragile ornaments in leftover tissue paper or newspaper, or invest in storage containers like archival ornament boxes from the Container Store. For strings of lights and garlands, use zip ties to avoid tangles and put them in plastic bags labeled according to use (tree lights, porch lights, balcony, bushes, etc. ). Zip ties can also be used on wreaths, so that they can be hung on coat hangers and covered with plastic garment bags from the dry cleaner. To avoid a stockpile of holiday cards, “save only those that are meaningful and special,” Tova Weinstock, a professional organizer in Brooklyn, said. “For the others, appreciate them as you receive them and then kindly send them to the trash. ” EDIT YOUR CLOSET Eliminating clothes you never wear is easier said than done. “I don’t believe in ‘If you haven’t used or worn something in a year, get rid of it,’” said Laura Cattano, another organizer in Brooklyn. “How you want to live moving forward is a much better guide for editing than whether or not you actually have used something in the past. ” Focus on the image you would like to project, she said, then start at one end of the closet and review each piece, pulling out those you know you can toss, donate or sell. Try on anything you haven’t worn in a while and consider how it makes you feel or if it could be styled differently. Clothes you have forgotten about could be “your new favorite thing,” she said, while there may be some pieces you wear all the time that should be retired. (If you subscribe to the Marie Kondo method of decluttering, ask yourself, “Does it ‘spark joy? ’”) Sort clothes by type, grouping pants together, then shirts or blouses, jackets or dresses. “If you can’t see it, you won’t wear it,” said Sharon Lowenheim, an organizer on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and the founder of the Organizing Goddess. “So remove dry cleaning bags and hang only one item per hanger. ” Arranging shirts by sleeve length, with the shortest at the front, makes them easier to find, said Ms. Lowenheim, who also subscribes to a rotation method: selecting garments to wear from the front of each section, then hanging them up toward the back after they are cleaned. “If you find yourself continually bypassing an item at the front, that is a signal to you that you just don’t like that item,” she said. “Get rid of it. ” Another way to keep your closet streamlined is to store   clothes out of sight, said Faith Roberson, an organizer in Manhattan and the founder of Organize With Faith. When clothes have been put away for half the year and you’ve done fine without them, “it changes your perspective,” she said. “You can honestly ask yourself, ‘Do I actually love this piece? And if I don’t, why am I holding onto it? ’” TACKLE THE TOYS Organizing pros agree that the best way to keep toys from taking over is to get children involved in selecting some to donate. “Finding a charity that provides toys to less fortunate children is very motivating for a child,” said Ms. Lowenheim, whose    daughter purged her playthings in this manner before each birthday and holiday, starting when she was a toddler. Before that, Ms. Lowenheim said, she would sneak into her daughter’s room while she was sleeping to gather up the games and stuffed animals she was no longer playing with. “When she was around 3, she started noticing if something was missing and would ask me about it,” Ms. Lowenheim said. “At that point, I realized that I had to involve her in the process. ” If they cooperate, be sure to respect their decision, Ms. Roberson said, even if they choose something you wouldn’t have. “Parents think about the money they’ve spent,” she said, or the sentimental value, which can make them reluctant to let go of that American Girl doll or the train set from Aunt Joan. Another strategy is to encourage them to sell the toys they no longer play with, either online or at a garage sale, and keep the proceeds for themselves. Once the toys have been pared down, Ms. Roberson swears by clear shoe or sweater drawers for storage. “They are stackable, they have dividers, are easy to clean, easy to label, and they come in four different sizes,” she said. To help maintain order, “label where each toy goes,” said Ms. Lowenheim, who recommends installing a tall bookcase and putting paints, jigsaw puzzles and other games that tend to leave a mess on the highest shelf. If your child is too young to read, label the containers with stickers or pictures. If everything has “a home” to return to at the end of the day, she said, cleanup will be easier. AND THAT JUNK DRAWER . .. “Don’t waste your time standing over the drawer sifting through it piece by piece,” Ms. Roberson said. Dump everything onto the floor or countertop, divide it into piles and then ask yourself: Do I want it? Does it work? Does it need to be in the junk drawer? If not, where else could it go? “Take it easy, and go pile by pile,” she said. Put things where they belong (like that miniature tube of toothpaste you got from the dentist that should go in your toiletries bag) and discard things you don’t need, like old keys and expired batteries and coupons. To ward off atrophy, buy a drawer organizer, suggested Ms. Lowenheim, who uses expandable drawer organizers from Staples in her own home. “The key thing is to measure the drawer, then find the organizer that best fits the space,” she said. “If it’s too small, it won’t help. ” The reward? “Keeping everything sorted by type,” she said, “will make it easier for you to find something when you need it. ”"
31,17319,Benjamin Netanyahu Questioned in Israel Graft Inquiry - The New York Times,New York Times,Isabel Kershner,2017-01-03,2017.0,1.0,,"JERUSALEM  —   Israeli police investigators questioned Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu for three hours at his official residence on Monday evening on suspicion of receiving illicit gifts and favors from business executives. Mr. Netanyahu was questioned “under caution,” the police said in a statement, implying that there were grounds to suspect that Mr. Netanyahu might have committed a criminal offense. “No further details can be given at this stage,” the statement added. The Ministry of Justice said late Monday that Mr. Netanyahu had been questioned by investigators from Lahav 433, a police fraud investigation and prosecution unit, with the authorization of the attorney general, Avichai Mandelblit. In a detailed statement, the ministry described how the police had gathered testimony from dozens of witnesses, some abroad, and seized documents during a monthslong graft inquiry. While some aspects of the inquiry did not yield evidence of crimes, the statement said, other parts warranted a deeper investigation. Mr. Netanyahu, who has been subject to police inquiries and investigations in the past that ended without charges, has vehemently denied any impropriety. “This will all come to nothing, because there is nothing,” he has said repeatedly of the latest accusations. Local news outlets say the investigators are focused on two separate cases, one more serious than the other, but they have offered little detail on the more serious one. The less weighty one, according to reports in the newspaper Haaretz and other outlets, concerns favors for Mr. Netanyahu, and possibly for members of his family, given by Israeli and foreign business executives. The Israeli police took testimony from Ronald S. Lauder, a conservative American businessman and philanthropist, and a close friend of Mr. Netanyahu’s, when he came to Israel in late September to attend the funeral of Shimon Peres, the former prime minister and president. Upon Mr. Lauder’s arrival in Israel, he was asked to meet with the Israeli police “and respond to questions related to an investigation, to which Mr. Lauder is not a party,” Helena Beilin, a Tel   lawyer representing Mr. Lauder, said in a statement. “After a short meeting the following day, he was told that his presence was no longer needed and that there would be no need for additional meetings. This remains the case. ” Mr. Netanyahu’s office, suggesting that he is the victim of a witch hunt, issued a statement over the weekend berating the news organizations for what it described as premature and politically motivated reports. “Try to replace the prime minister at the ballot boxes, as is accepted in democracies,” it added. In televised remarks on Monday afternoon, Mr. Netanyahu told legislators from his conservative Likud Party in Parliament, “We hear the celebratory spirit and winds blowing through the television studios and in the corridors of the opposition. ” “Hold off the celebrations don’t rush,” he added. “I’ve told you before and will tell you again  —   this will come to nothing, because there is nothing. ” Mr. Netanyahu is serving his third consecutive term in office, and his fourth over all. He has exuded confidence lately, lashing out at journalists who have been critical of him, talking up Israel’s diplomatic and economic achievements, and calling in the United States ambassador to Israel, Daniel B. Shapiro, for a dressing down late last month after the Obama administration decided not to use its veto to shield Israel from a United Nations Security Council resolution that condemned Israeli settlement construction in the occupied West Bank and East Jerusalem. Mr. Netanyahu, generally a popular prime minister, has developed a combative relationship with the local mainstream news media. After years of tension with the Obama administration, he also appears buoyed by the prospect of a partnership with   Donald J. Trump, who seems more sympathetic to Israeli government policies on issues like settlements. For Mr. Netanyahu’s opponents, the prospect of a possible indictment has provided a glimmer of hope, even though elections are not scheduled until late 2019. “This creates an unusual dynamic in Israeli politics,” said Nahum Barnea, a political columnist for the newspaper Yedioth Ahronoth and a critic of Mr. Netanyahu. On the one hand, Mr. Barnea said, there were already signs that Netanyahu loyalists would try to promote legislation banning investigations of sitting prime ministers. On the other, he said, the question of who might succeed Mr. Netanyahu, who has no natural heir in his party, was bound to be raised. Opposition leaders were fairly subdued in their initial response. Isaac Herzog, the leader of the Zionist Union and of the opposition in Parliament, said it was “a tough day for Israel when a prime minister is under investigation. ” He added, “We are not expressing satisfaction at another’s misfortune. ” Mr. Herzog has also been the subject of police investigations over campaign funding. Yair Lapid, the leader of the centrist Yesh Atid party, which has challenged Likud in recent polls, said, “The presumption of innocence applies to every Israeli, including the prime minister. ” He called for a swift investigation for the sake of the country, saying, “A person who is being investigated is a person under pressure. ” Israeli prime ministers are not obligated to step down while under investigation, unless they are charged with a crime. Nonetheless, the accusations could chip away at Mr. Netanyahu’s standing. His predecessor, Ehud Olmert, was forced from power in 2008 under the weight of police investigations and accusations of corruption, although he remained in office as a caretaker prime minister until early elections could be held in 2009. In February, Mr. Olmert became the first former Israeli prime minister to enter prison. He is serving a   term for bribery and obstruction of justice. Mr. Netanyahu described Mr. Olmert in 2008 as a “prime minister up to his neck in investigations” and said he could not be trusted to make fateful decisions under the circumstances because they might be based on personal rather than national interests. Since the 1990s, Mr. Netanyahu’s political career has been dogged by inquiries into his conduct, and that of people around him, though no charges have been filed against him. The inquiries have ranged from scandals involving travel expenses and garden furniture  —   the Netanyahus were suspected of having switched a new set bought for the prime minister’s official residence with an identical, old set in their private home in Caesarea  —   to a more recent one involving a   deal with Germany for the acquisition of submarines. That agreement came under scrutiny after it became known that Mr. Netanyahu’s personal lawyer also represents the Israeli agent of the German shipyard that builds the submarines, and other naval equipment purchased by Israel, giving rise to suspicion of a conflict of interest. In that episode, too, Mr. Netanyahu and the lawyer, David Shimron, have denied any wrongdoing. Mr. Netanyahu’s relationship with Arnaud Mimran, a French tycoon who was convicted of fraud last year, and who testified that he had contributed a large sum of money to Mr. Netanyahu for his 2009 election campaign, has also prompted suspicions of impropriety."
34,17324,Riot by Drug Gangs in Brazil Prison Leaves at Least 56 Dead - The New York Times,New York Times,Simon Romero,2017-01-16,2017.0,1.0,,"RIO DE JANEIRO  —   A prison riot involving gangs vying for supremacy over the cocaine trade in the Brazilian Amazon left at least 56 people dead, the authorities in the city of Manaus said on Monday. Riots at Brazil’s prisons are common, but the episode in Manaus, which involved decapitated bodies being thrown over the walls of the penitentiary, ranks among the bloodiest in recent decades. Officials expressed dismay over the scenes of slaughter in the Compaj prison, which held more than 1, 200 inmates, about triple its official capacity. “I never saw anything like this in my life,” Judge Luís Carlos Valois, who helped negotiate an end to the riot, said in a Facebook post. He said that dozens of people had been killed, but that it was challenging to arrive at a precise count: “There were lots of bodies. Many of them were dismembered. ” The riot flared on Sunday and lasted about 17 hours, raising fears of even greater violence on the streets of Manaus, the largest city in the Amazon basin with a population of about 2. 1 million. Manaus has emerged as a brutal battleground between two prison gangs that are contesting control of the drug trade in the region. The authorities said that one of the gangs, Familia do Norte (Family of the North) which operates from the Manaus prisons, was responsible for the vast majority of the killings during the riot. The targets were from First Capital Command, a much larger rival gang commonly known by its Portuguese initials, P. C. C. which has its roots in the prisons of São Paulo in southeast Brazil. “There were deaths only on one side,” Sérgio Fontes, the top security official in Amazonas State, told reporters. “The Familia do Norte massacred members of the First Capital Command, and one or another guys who weren’t on their good side at the moment. ” The riot drew comparisons with the 1992 uprising at the Carandiru prison in São Paulo, when police forces stormed the building and 111 inmates were killed. An appeals court recently voided the convictions of 73 police officers for their participation in the killings, raising criticism from human rights groups. Since that episode, the Brazilian authorities have vowed to alleviate overcrowding in the country’s prisons and combat prison gangs. But soaring numbers of convictions for relatively minor drug offenses have pushed prison populations upward, the gangs’ clout is growing, and riots continue to erupt frequently all over the country. In the riot in Manaus, inmates took dozens of fellow prisoners hostage. They also seized 12 employees of Umanizzare, a private contractor that operates prisons in the Amazon. Negotiators eventually won the release of the hostages by assuring the inmates that they would not be harmed or transferred to other prisons. Security specialists say that Brazil could experience more riots like the one in Manaus as P. C. C. the São Paulo gang, extends its reach around the country. Familia do Norte, the Manaus gang, recently formed an alliance with Red Command, a gang that has been losing ground to P. C. C. in parts of Rio de Janeiro."
35,17325,SpaceX Says It’s Ready to Launch Rockets Again - The New York Times,New York Times,Kenneth Chang,2017-01-02,2017.0,1.0,,"After the explosion in September of one of its rockets, SpaceX is now ready to get back into the business of sending payloads to space, the company announced on Monday, with its next rocket headed to orbit as soon as Sunday. In a statement, SpaceX  —   or more formally, Space Exploration Technologies Corporation  —   said that an investigation had determined the likely cause: an unexpected interplay of supercold helium and oxygen with carbon fibers and aluminum. The statement Monday added technical details about what went wrong, and the company said it had devised workarounds to prevent a recurrence. The cascade of explosions on Sept. 1 that destroyed a Falcon 9 rocket on the launchpad at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station in Florida was perplexing and concerning, because it occurred during what is usually regarded as a safer portion of operations  —   the fueling of propellants  —   about eight minutes before the ignition of the engines for a planned test. (The launch had been scheduled for two days later.) The trouble appeared to start near the liquid oxygen tank on the second stage of the   rocket, and in less than a tenth of a second, that section was in flames, followed by the destruction of the entire rocket and a $200 million communications satellite whose customers included Facebook, which had planned to use it to expand internet services in Africa. Under current federal laws, investigations into such explosions are led by the company that built the rocket, not by a government agency. The investigation panel included representatives of the Federal Aviation Administration, the United States Air Force, NASA and the National Transportation Safety Board. Falcon 9 rockets are used to carry NASA cargo to the International Space Station and are to provide transportation for astronauts beginning in 2018. SpaceX is also competing to win contracts to launch Department of Defense spy satellites. With few obvious clues to the explosion, the company initially considered hypotheses like sabotage, that a sniper had fired a shot rupturing the oxygen tank from the roof of a competitor’s building nearby. “The accident investigation team worked systematically through an extensive fault tree analysis,” SpaceX said in its statement. The investigation narrowed in on three helium containers within the   liquid oxygen tank. The containers consist of an aluminum liner with an outer layer of strong carbon fibers. During launch, as the liquid oxygen is consumed, the helium is heated and released to maintain pressure within the tank. In December 2015, SpaceX began using an upgraded Falcon 9 design that uses supercooled liquid oxygen at minus 340 degrees, 40 degrees colder than what is typically used. The lower temperature makes the oxygen denser, which improves engine thrust. But the helium was even colder. As the carbon and aluminum cool, they shrink at different rates, opening gaps into which liquid oxygen could flow. In addition, the helium may have been below the temperature at which oxygen freezes, and some of the trapped oxygen may have become solid. “Really surprising problem that’s never been encountered before in the history of rocketry,” Elon Musk, the chief executive of SpaceX, said in an interview on CNBC in November. Both carbon and aluminum can burn, and with oxygen sandwiched in between, all of the ingredients for a conflagration were present. Friction or the breaking of fibers could have provided the energy for ignition, the company said. Tests at SpaceX’s facilities in Hawthorne, Calif. and McGregor, Tex. supported that conclusion, the company said. The configuration of the helium containers has been shifted, and the fueling procedures will change so that the helium will be warmer, SpaceX said. The next SpaceX launch is to carry a   of satellites for Iridium Communications, which provides communications services including satellite telephones through a constellation of satellites. Iridium is looking to replace the surviving 65 original satellites with 70 new satellites, each about the size of a Mini Cooper car. A month ago, Iridium issued a statement saying it hoped that SpaceX would be able to launch its satellites in   but less than a week later, SpaceX said it was pushing back the launch date to early January. The Iridium satellite is to be launched by SpaceX from a leased launchpad at Vandenberg Air Force Base in California. For launches from Florida, SpaceX hopes to complete renovations at Launchpad 39A at the Kennedy Space Center, once used for space shuttle launches. SpaceX is tentatively aiming to resume cargo flights to the space station this month."
36,17326,A ‘World Unto Itself’ in New York Area Yeshivas: Floor Hockey - The New York Times,New York Times,Corey Kilgannon,2017-03-13,2017.0,3.0,,"In the basement of a mammoth old building in Upper Manhattan that houses the Yeshiva University High School for Boys sits a cramped gym that is home to the high school’s floor hockey team, known as the Lions. The school calls the gym the Lions’ Den, but many visitors call it the Dungeon and liken playing there to playing hockey inside a box. Games are raucous affairs with rough play and frenzied fans squeezed onto the narrow bleachers at one end, between the squads of panting players. Several miles away, in the Riverdale neighborhood of the Bronx, is the comparatively luxurious indoor rink at the Salanter Akiba Riverdale High School, known as S. A. R. With its sturdy boards and rounded sides, the rink resembles a real ice hockey surface. Its scoreboard is flanked by American and Israeli flags. Between these two extremes exists the   but thriving world of interscholastic floor hockey at yeshiva high schools in New York City and surrounding towns. The game in these Orthodox Jewish private schools stretches back at least to the late 1970s, but in recent years, it has grown enormously popular. The championship match can fill an arena with as many as 1, 000 fans, with more people watching live online. Players in elementary grades at Jewish schools now set their sights on yeshivas with the most powerful hockey programs. “Outside the Orthodox community, this is a foreign thing,” said Amir Gavarin, 22, a former floor hockey league player. “But inside, it’s a whole world unto itself, and supercompetitive. ” The teams play in the Metropolitan Yeshiva High School Hockey League, which includes 18 varsity and 15 junior varsity teams for boys. There are also 12 girls’ teams, which play in the spring season. The game is similar to ice hockey, but played on foot on a gym floor with a hard orange ball and   squads made up of a goalie and four roaming players. Goalies wear full padding, but the other players wear sweatpants, jerseys and helmets with face masks. Under the jersey, some players wear a tallit katan, a religious garment with knotted fringes, or zizit. Blatant body checking is banned, but there is plenty of contact. The teams play mostly in conventional gyms set up with temporary barriers. Orthodox youngsters are often introduced to the game in summer camp or by friends from their synagogue, and end up playing in one of the many youth leagues that have cropped up in Orthodox neighborhoods, before joining teams in middle school. “In some New Jersey yeshivas, floor hockey is more popular than basketball,” said Yoni Stone, the varsity coach at the Yeshiva University High School for Boys. “Forget high school  —   every single day school has a team, and the kids start in the youth leagues. ” Players, abiding by their religious tenets, use the sport as an outlet between long hours spent studying Judaic texts and other subjects. Since they observe the Sabbath, there is no play on Friday evenings or Saturdays before sundown. The season runs from late October through March. On a weeknight last month, the Lions made their dramatic pregame entrance to blaring rock music. They were there to take on the Cobras from the Rae Kushner Yeshiva High School in Livingston, N. J. a school financed by the family of Jared Kushner, the    of   Donald J. Trump. Mr. Kushner himself was proficient at the sport, having played for the Frisch School in Paramus, N. J. when he was a teenager. The Cobras wound up beating the Lions, a fatiguing feat since the ball rarely escapes the playing area, making for almost nonstop action. Each game has three periods, with each period lasting 12 minutes. In fact, the team from the Ramaz School on Manhattan’s Upper East Side prepared to play at the Lions’ gym by having one of its players, a senior training to enter the Israeli Army, put his teammates through rigorous military exercises. The Ramaz School holds games in a modern, brightly lit gym that is a far cry from the Lions’ Den. One night last month, the Rams of Ramaz took on the visiting Thunder from the Rav Teitz Mesivta Academy, or R. T. M. A. from Elizabeth, N. J. and won the game in   overtime, prompting a celebratory mob of Ramaz players. At certain powerhouses, hockey is perhaps the most prominent sport, and rivalries have developed between neighboring yeshivas. In Brooklyn, the games can be particularly intense whenever the Magen David Yeshivah or the Yeshivah of Flatbush, both in Midwood, or the Yeshivat Darche Eres in Sheepshead Bay, face off. “They’re seeing all these kids in synagogue the next day, so that creates a certain competitiveness,” Mr. Stone said. When rivals in the Five Towns section of Long Island play, “the whole town shuts down” for games that can attract hundreds of spectators, said David Kolb, a hockey writer for MSG Networks and the operator of Camp Dovid, a summer hockey camp in Pennsylvania where campers wear the names of their yeshivas on their jerseys. Two top teams in the Five Towns  —   the Hebrew Academy of the Five Towns and Rockaway and the D. R. S. Yeshiva High School for Boys  —   have nurtured a   rivalry. And in the league final in 2014, when the Hebrew Academy finally avenged years of losses with a victory, “you would have thought the messiah had come,” said Seth Gordon, the hockey commissioner for the Metropolitan Yeshiva High School Athletic League. “Some of these rivalries start in elementary school, with the seeds planted when these kids are in sixth grade,” Mr. Gordon said. Though the sport has drawn a loyal and passionate following, the athletes are ultimately religious students who are urged to put their spiritual priorities before their athletic ones. “It’s common with the Jewish identity that we can’t do certain things because of the boundaries of observant Jewish life, so we create our own parameters and do it to the fullest,” Mr. Gavarin said. Mayer Schiller, a Hasidic rabbi who in the 1990s coached Yeshiva University High School to six consecutive league championships, is recognized as the progenitor of the yeshiva floor hockey scene. He was hard to miss, since he coached wearing his black hat and coat. Rabbi Schiller, 65, still an avid fan of rock, pop and punk music, established the now popular tradition of having players enter the gym to loud music. The rabbi’s choice: the Ramones. He grew up playing roller hockey in Queens. In the late 1970s, with New York’s professional basketball teams sagging, students began rooting for two local hockey teams, the Rangers and the Islanders, Rabbi Schiller recalled. Rabbi Schiller was a devout Rangers fan who was particularly fond of the raucous play of Nick Fotiu, a native of Staten Island who became a brawler for the Rangers. The rabbi formed a team at the Ramaz School in 1979, and helped organize a fledgling yeshiva hockey league with a   teams that grew significantly over the years. He regarded coaching as a form of spiritual service and striving at sports as a complement to studying sacred texts and worshiping God. “If God didn’t mean for this greatness to exist, why did he give us Gretzky and Jordan?” Rabbi Schiller said. On a recent weeknight, the S. A. R. team  —   which includes Mr. Kolb’s two sons, Gordie and Henri  —   was put through   drills and scrimmaging by its longtime head coach, Howie Falkenstein. Mr. Falkenstein also runs a hockey program at the Westchester Summer Day camp in Mamaroneck, N. Y. and a league in the Bronx that attracts players from across the region. Its youngest level is the Mites division, which is open to first and second graders. Mr. Falkenstein was getting his team ready for its game against the Frisch School and had players practicing penalty shots. Gordie, the S. A. R. Sting’s captain, deftly scored on his brother, a goalie, prompting a chorus of hoots from teammates. S. A. R. wound up beating Frisch, solidifying its status as one of the league’s top teams. “It’s definitely its own niche, but it’s still hockey and it has the team camaraderie that people are looking for,” Mr. Falkenstein said. “It has the same excitement when you score a goal or make a save. ”"
37,17327,Inside Jonathan Lethem’s Oddball Trove - The New York Times,New York Times,Jennifer Schuessler,2017-01-02,2017.0,1.0,,"Writers are different from the rest of us. Their castoff scraps can be worth money, not to mention the obsessive attentions of future scholars. Jonathan Lethem, 52, recently became the latest author to sell his personal paper trail to a major archive. The Beinecke Rare Book  Manuscript Library at Yale University acquired a trove of his manuscripts, letters, notes and other artifacts, which will now sit alongside material from Walt Whitman, Sinclair Lewis, James Baldwin and Marilynne Robinson in its rich American literature collection. Mr. Lethem’s papers contain items relating to the novels that made him something of a reluctant patron saint of Brooklyn’s literary ascendance, including “Motherless Brooklyn” (1999) and “The Fortress of Solitude” (2003). But as befits a lifelong collector, music obsessive, comics geek and dedicated chronicler of underground culture, there are also   cartoons, New York 1970s ephemera and what is surely the largest cache of drawings of vomiting cats in any university collection. “For an author who is so much fun as a novelist, it’s interesting to see there is so much fun in his archival documents as well,” said Melissa Barton, the curator of American prose and drama at the Beinecke. (Ms. Barton, citing library policy, declined to say what Yale paid in the sale, which was arranged by the Manhattan book dealer Glenn Horowitz.) Mr. Lethem’s archive also includes two computer hard drives, a laptop and other digital materials, especially from more recent years. “You can feel the evaporation of the physical ephemera,” Mr. Lethem, whose most recent novel, “A Gambler’s Anatomy,” appeared in October, said in an interview. But the bulk of the collection consists of   artifacts, some of them charmingly weird. We asked Mr. Lethem, who left New York in 2010 to teach creative writing at Pomona College in Claremont, Calif. about some of the odder items in his literary closet. The archive includes a number of   comic books Mr. Lethem made as a child, featuring invented superheroes like   Man, whose origin story included an   attempt to start a nudist colony in Alaska. In one installment,   Man (who later got a passing   in “The Fortress of Solitude”) battled Ed Koch, who was no hero to Mr. Lethem’s   bohemian parents. “I didn’t make multiple copies to sell or anything,” he said. “It was more like I was collecting my own weird artifacts from a pretend universe where   Man was a real comic. ” Mr. Lethem swiped this sticker after stumbling on a shoot for the 1979 movie “The Warriors” in the   subway station in Brooklyn, which was standing in for the Times Square station. “This was my subway stop, and the fact that they were turning it into 42nd Street seemed absurd,” Mr. Lethem recalled. “I remember thinking that no one would see or hear about this movie. Nothing that anyone was shooting in my neighborhood could possibly be important. ” The archive contains typescripts of his novels, often affixed with alternate titles. (Would “Motherless Brooklyn” have been a hit if it had been called “Jerks From Nowhere”?) The earliest is “Apes in the Plan,” an unpublished “fake Philip K. Dick novel,” as Mr. Lethem put it, named for a Devo lyric and written between ages 18 and 23. “I wrote three novels on an electric typewriter,” he said. “If I live long enough, I could end up being one of the last living humans who can say that. ” This diary tracking his writing progress, social interactions, exercise and, um, digestion comes from the   when Mr. Lethem had dropped out of Bennington College and moved to Berkeley, Calif. to try to become a writer. “I had thrust myself into a kind of vacuum,” he said. “I had no visible means of support, nor was anyone expecting to hear from me. This kind of weird   probably had to do with externalizing my superego and answering the question ‘Who are you and what did you actually do today? ’” About those drawings of vomiting cats   …     “For about 15 years, every time I had a really good dance party that went late, with people lolling around drunk and exhausted, at about 2 a. m. I would hand out paper and ask everyone to draw a vomiting cat,” Mr. Lethem said. “I ended up with an incredibly thick file of drawings, some by people who went on to be published cartoonists and writers. ” Some of the goofy character names in Mr. Lethem’s novels are drawn from   lists he typed up early in his career, a habit he connects with the wordplay of “Motherless Brooklyn,” whose narrator has Tourette’s syndrome. Mr. Lethem recalled a moment of recognition sparked by an Oliver Sacks essay about a surgeon with Tourette’s who kept a list of more than 200 unusual names as “candy for the mind. ” “He was collecting real names,” Mr. Lethem said. “But when I read that, I thought, ‘Oh my God, that’s me. ’” Names from this list showed up in “Gun, With Occasional Music” (1994) and “Chronic City” (2009). “The Fortress of Solitude,” inspired by Mr. Lethem’s Brooklyn childhood, describes a   store called Samuel J. Underberg, “a site of mysterious life,” where graffiti artists came to buy ink that was specially formulated for stamping prices on slimy packages of meat and therefore ideal for tagging. While writing, Mr. Lethem acquired some random items from the real Underberg’s (now demolished) which are shown here with a 1978 Billboard Hot 100 list, an old calendar and other research materials. “I became a collector of all this tawdry used signage,” he said. “I just thought it was really weird and cool. ” The archive contains dozens of letters from fellow writers and artists, including Donna Tartt, Paul Auster, Suzanne Vega, Jennifer Egan, Thomas Berger and Ursula K. Le Guin. This missive, written on an airline safety card, is from the novelist David Bowman, who died of a cerebral hemorrhage in 2012. “All his letters were like mail art,” Mr. Lethem said. “David had a great, crazy brain. He never stopped covering the world in language. ”"
38,17328,An Immigrant’s Instinct to Aid Others Collides With Financial Need - The New York Times,New York Times,John Otis,2017-01-02,2017.0,1.0,,"In 2007, Rey Canunayon and his wife, MaryGwen, immigrated to the United States from the island of Mindanao in the Philippines. In doing so, they were fulfilling their family’s dreams. For years, her parents had requested that the Canunayons join them in New York City. But her parents died before that could happen. Mr. Canunayon felt remorse about not honoring their wishes while they were alive. Still, he and his wife wanted to embark on the adventure and make the move. “America is a great nation, a kind nation, a nation of greener pastures and milk and honey and endless possibilities,” Mr. Canunayon said. When the couple arrived, they stayed with Ms. Canunayon’s family in New Jersey. Life was exciting, even relaxing, Mr. Canunayon said. But as they settled in a new country, he struggled to find work and grew despondent. “Oh, my God, I have cried a river because I was in a depression,” said Mr. Canunayon, now 46. He found relaxation riding the subway, one station to the next, so long as it kept moving. “When you come from a place where you are so familiar, your own country, you have friends, relatives, connections, a career. And then you’re stripped of everything except your dignity it’s really hard,” he said. Eventually, the couple were able to move into an apartment of their own in Elmhurst, Queens. They also secured employment. He works at a   laundry, while his wife, 49, is a babysitter, a midwife and a nanny. In October 2015, they received their green cards. Beyond that, Mr. Canunayon, who left a career in nonprofit work in the Philippines, has recommitted himself to working to help people and neighborhoods change for the better. Only this time, he is not collecting a paycheck for it. “God gave knowledge for free, skills for free, talent for free, so I’ll give it for free,” Mr. Canunayon said. He volunteers at the couple’s place of worship in Elmhurst, St. Adalbert Roman Catholic Church. He also helps other Filipino immigrants. “I cannot imagine myself not sharing the skills and   talent that I have,” he said. But because this effort doesn’t come with a salary, it doesn’t help pay the bills. It took one episode, when the Canunayons received a $600 medical bill for lab tests in September, for them to plummet into financial instability. “It was a big problem, Mr. Canunayon said. “What will happen to us if we can’t pay the rent?” He came across a possible solution on one of his volunteer outings for the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn and the Filipino Consulate, where he was helping people renew their passports. He mentioned his financial problems to Greg Hankins, a volunteer he had met that day. Mr. Hankins encouraged him to contact another group, Community Health Advocates. It is operated by the Community Service Society, one of eight organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The Community Service Society did help, providing $641. 45 in Neediest Cases money to cover the couple’s outstanding medical bills. They also got help obtaining health insurance. While grateful for the assistance, they continue to worry about everyday challenges: making ends meet, sending money back to their families and carefully monitoring their finances. “It’s the same situation, financially struggling and trying to get myself back into the saddle,” Mr. Canunayon said. He continues to search for jobs in the nonprofit sector. In the Philippines, he worked in research, advocacy and policy legislation, which led to the development of sustainable organic agriculture to feed the poor. The cause was personal: Many members of his family are farmers. He has not given up hope that he will find a job that lets him continue his passion for service while providing a decent income. “I would be killing myself if I did something else,” he said. “It would deplete my energy. When you work on the things you most love doing, it’s not work. ”"
41,17332,Turmoil Overshadows First Day of Republican-Controlled Congress - The New York Times,New York Times,Jennifer Steinhauer and Robert Pear,2017-01-04,2017.0,1.0,,"WASHINGTON  —   The   Congress opened the turbulent Trump era in Washington on Tuesday, as the new Senate moved instantly to begin the repeal of President Obama’s signature health care law while the House descended into chaos in an   attempt to gut an independent congressional ethics office. On a day usually reserved for pomp, constitutionally mandated procedure and small children parading around in fancy dresses, Congress instead pitched itself into partisan battles. Speaker Paul D. Ryan easily won   but not before the embarrassment of having his members defy him by voting to eliminate the ethics office, only to then abandon that effort after a flood of criticism from constituents and Twitter messages from   Donald J. Trump that criticized House Republican priorities. It was a rocky start to a period in which Republicans had promised an end to Washington gridlock if they controlled both Congress and the White House. There was intraparty conflict and a sense that Mr. Trump, who ran against the Republican establishment, would continue to be openly critical of his own party at times. As Democrats in both chambers seethed, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, unveiled the legislative language that could decimate the Affordable Care Act before the crocuses start to bloom in the spring, even if any replacement of the law could take years. Budget language released on Tuesday gives House and Senate committees only until Jan. 27 to produce legislation that would eliminate major parts of the health care law. Under arcane budget procedures, that legislation would be protected from a Democratic filibuster and could pass the Senate with a simple majority. And debate will begin on Wednesday, before senators have even moved into their new offices. The dueling over the health law’s fate will pull in both the departing and incoming White House administrations as well. On Wednesday, Mr. Obama will visit with congressional Democrats to plot how to resist the planned repeal, and Mike Pence, the vice   will meet with Republicans to gird them for the fight ahead. While the Senate action showed Republicans on course to keep campaign promises, the House got off to a messy start, brought on by Republicans who had moved largely in secret on Monday to gut a congressional ethics office against Mr. Ryan’s wishes. That provoked an outcry from both Democrats and voters who flooded House offices with angry calls. “Every   organization is calling my office,” said Representative Pete Sessions, Republican of Texas. “And we’ve told them: ‘Thank you very much. We appreciate your feedback. ’” After a hastily called meeting on Tuesday morning among Republicans, the matter was dropped before it could go to the full House floor for a vote. As the Senate moved to larger legislative matters, the House kerfuffle seemed to cast a shadow over Mr. Ryan, but he tried to brush it off. “There’s no sense of foreboding in the House today,” Mr. Ryan said after his   “only the sense of potential. ” The fight over the House rules was already acrimonious thanks to a piece of the package that would impose $2, 500 in fines for filming events on the House floor, a response to Democrats who streamed their overnight   over guns last June using cellphones and video cameras. In the Senate, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. swore in seven new members and all the incumbents who won their races last year, their colleagues looking on cheerfully, as a cold rain pelted the newly refurbished Capitol dome. Members of the House and Senate brought along their families  —   elderly parents with canes, small children tugging at uncomfortable lacy hems  —   as well as former senators and other special guests. Former Vice President Dick Cheney accompanied his daughter Liz to her   as a member of the House elected from Wyoming. Senator Chuck Schumer of New York officially became the Democratic leader and quickly warned Republicans that the minority would be vocal, if not operatic, in resisting much of their agenda and many of Mr. Trump’s nominees. “It is our job to do what’s best for the American people, the middle class and those struggling to get there,” he said. “If the   proposes legislation on issues like infrastructure, trade and closing the carried interest loophole, for instance, we will work in good faith to perfect and, potentially, enact it. When he doesn’t, we will resist. ” He added, “If   Trump lets the   members of Congress and his cabinet run the show, if he adopts their timeworn policies  —   which benefit the elites, the special interests and corporate America, not the working man and woman  —   his presidency will not succeed. ” On Tuesday, the House also adopted rules clearing the way for legislation to roll back the health care law. The budget blueprint introduced on Tuesday in the Senate is not sent to the president and does not become law, but still clears the way for subsequent legislation that Republicans say will repeal major provisions of the Affordable Care Act. Republicans bypassed the Budget Committee so they could immediately bring the measure to the floor. Such resolutions are normally developed after weeks of work in the Budget Committee. Under the plan, four congressional committees  —   two in the House and two in the Senate  —   have until Jan. 27 to develop legislation that will be the vehicle for repealing the health care law. The document does not specify which provisions of the law may be eliminated and which ones may be preserved. Nor does it specify or even suggest how Republicans would replace the Affordable Care Act, which the Obama administration says has provided coverage to some 20 million people who were previously uninsured. Republicans have said they may delay the effective date of a repeal bill, to avoid disrupting coverage for people who have it and to provide time for Republicans to develop alternatives to the 2010 health law. The budget blueprint allows Republicans to use savings from repealing major provisions of that law to help offset the cost of future, unspecified measures to help people obtain coverage. “Americans face skyrocketing premiums and soaring deductibles,” said Senator Mike Enzi, Republican of Wyoming and chairman of the Senate Budget Committee. “Insurers are withdrawing from markets across the country, leaving many families with fewer choices and less access to care than they had before  —   the opposite of what the law promised. ” The American Medical Association urged Congress on Tuesday to explain how it would replace the Affordable Care Act. “Before any action is taken through reconciliation or other means that would potentially alter coverage, policy makers should lay out for the American people, in reasonable detail, what will replace current policies,” the chief executive of the association, Dr. James L. Madara, said in a letter to congressional leaders. Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, who engineered the House passage of the health law in 2010, promised this week that Democrats would be just as aggressive in fighting its repeal. Republicans have said they may delay legislation to replace the health law for several years. Ms. Pelosi said that such a delay would be “an act of cowardice on the part of Republicans,” and that “they don’t even have the votes to do it” because they have not agreed on a replacement plan. Democrats also vowed to give Mr. Trump’s cabinet nominees rigorous scrutiny. Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the   Democrat on the Judiciary Committee, has written to Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the committee chairman, asking to postpone the first scheduled confirmation hearing, set for next week for Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, whom Mr. Trump has chosen as attorney general."
43,17334,Trump Appears to Side With Assange Over Intelligence Agencies’ Conclusions - The New York Times,New York Times,"Scott Shane, Maggie Haberman and Julie Hirschfeld Davis",2017-01-05,2017.0,1.0,,"■   Donald J. Trump appears to side with the WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange over United States intelligence agencies, with Vice   Mike Pence backing him up. ■ She’s hired: Omarosa Manigault gets a White House post, as do some notable Trump loyalists. But Mr. Trump is leaning on Republican veterans in the Oval Office’s top slots. ■ The   finds something “very strange” about his intelligence briefing on Friday  —   even though the White House says it was always planned for Friday. For the Republican Party, Mr. Assange, the WikiLeaks founder, was once purely a villain. He found little sympathy with conservatives after he leaked American military secrets from Iraq, published purloined diplomatic cables that could have gotten American sources killed and sought refuge in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London, fleeing charges of rape. But now, Mr. Trump appears to be siding with Mr. Assange over the conclusions of America’s intelligence services. Mr. Assange appeared on Fox News on Tuesday night with Sean Hannity, one of Mr. Trump’s biggest news media boosters, to declare once again that the Russians were not the source of the purloined emails that WikiLeaks released from the Democratic National Committee and the personal account of Hillary Clinton’s campaign chairman, John Podesta. Mr. Trump followed that appearance with a series of Twitter posts on Wednesday that appeared to be preparing his followers for battle once more information on intelligence findings was released, most likely by Thursday. There were actually two separate hackings that the Obama administration has said came from Russian intelligence  —   with “100 percent” certainty. As he has previously, Mr. Assange said: “Our source is not the Russian government. It is not state parties. ” But Mr. Assange has often said that the organization does not always know the identity of its sources. It is highly unlikely that anyone approaching WikiLeaks with the emails obtained by Russian government hacking would acknowledge the source, so it is likely that Mr. Assange cannot be sure of the origin of the emails. Mr. Assange and Mr. Hannity did not address that, in addition to WikiLeaks, the leaked Democratic material was published by two mysterious websites, DCLeaks. com and a blog written by someone called Guccifer 2. 0. American intelligence agencies say they believe both were created by Russian agents. In addition to American intelligence agencies, most private researchers also say they believe that the D. N. C. and Podesta hackings were carried out on orders of Russian government officials, though a few skeptics say they believe the case is unproven by the evidence made public. Mr. Assange’s statement is unlikely to change that conclusion. Intelligence officials will brief Congress on their Russia inquiry on Thursday, ahead of a briefing for Mr. Trump in New York on Friday. Senator John McCain of Arizona, chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, will hold the first hearing on the matter on Thursday as well. As for that “terrible” information mentioned by Mr. Trump, the CNN commentator Donna Brazile did send Mr. Podesta an email ahead of a Democratic presidential debate in Flint, Mich. tipping him off that a woman in the audience would ask why the government was not doing more to help clean the city’s   water supply. That was, in fact, reported widely and often, here and here and here and here, among other places. And that was hardly an unexpected query  —   for Mrs. Clinton or for her rival, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont. It did cause Ms. Brazile to lose her CNN post. The   appears to be getting a jump on the news. Vice   Mike Pence defended Mr. Trump’s Assange posts at a Capitol Hill news conference Wednesday, effectively doubling down on the incoming administration’s icy blasts toward United States intelligence. Mr. Trump “expressed his very sincere and healthy American skepticism about intelligence conclusions,” Mr. Pence said, with House Republican leaders by his side. Mr. Trump’s remarks have again placed fellow Republicans in an uncomfortable position. Asked on Wednesday morning about the Twitter post, Speaker Paul D. Ryan steered clear of criticizing the   saying he would not be commenting on “every little tweet or Facebook post. ” But he called Mr. Assange “a sycophant for Russia,” who “leaks, steals data and compromises national security. ” Mr. Ryan noted that Mr. Trump had not yet received his latest briefing on Russia. “Hopefully, he’ll get up to speed on what’s been happening and what Russia has or has not done,” he said. Ms. Manigault, the villain and diva from Mr. Trump’s reality television show “The Apprentice,” was officially named assistant to the president and director of communications for the White House Office of Public Liaison, one of a slate of Wednesday appointments that went to ardent Trump loyalists. The appointments include Bill Stepien, a confidant of Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey and a figure in the “Bridgegate” scandal, who will be White House political director. Keith Schiller, who was head of private security at Mr. Trump’s real estate company, will be director of Oval Office operations. John DeStefano, a longtime aide to former House Speaker John A. Boehner, will direct presidential personnel. And George Gigicos, who organized those giant campaign rallies, will be director of advance, a further indicator that Mr. Trump plans to continue that sort of thing as president. But for star power, no one is going to beat Ms. Manigault. Ms. Manigault aside, Mr. Trump is turning to some seasoned veterans to run key operations in his White House. Mr. Trump announced on Wednesday that he had selected Joe Hagin, who served for 14 years in the White House under Roanld Reagan, George Bush and George W. Bush, as his deputy chief of staff for operations, a key post in which he will be responsible for organizing presidential trips and security, among other things. He named Rick Dearborn, who has 25 years of experience on Capitol Hill, as his chief liaison to Congress, heading the Office of Legislative Affairs as well as the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs and Cabinet Affairs. Katie Walsh, who was chief of staff at the Republican National Committee under Reince Priebus, Mr. Trump’s incoming chief of staff, will become his deputy at the White House, overseeing senior staff, scheduling and the Office of Public Liaison. In a statement, Mr. Priebus called the three a “team of doers” who would fill critical roles. Kellyanne Conway, who served as counselor to Mr. Trump, said she was thrilled to have “another strong female leader” on the team in Ms. Walsh. First, Mr. Trump said that the nation should move beyond talk of Russian interference in the presidential election, but that he would listen to what American intelligence experts had to say. Then, on New Year’s Eve, the   promised that by Tuesday or Wednesday, he would reveal information on the hacking that Americans do not know. And now, he seems to think the intelligence community has not quite gotten its story straight. The Obama administration quickly let it be known that, in fact, intelligence leaders always intended to brief Mr. Trump on Friday in New York. And intelligence officials were not amused. Nor were some Republican political consultants. But this is not the first time the   has taken a swipe at the intelligence community, which has concluded that Russia tried to help get him elected president. President Obama is on Capitol Hill on Wednesday to plot a strategy to save his signature domestic achievement, the Affordable Care Act. Vice   Mike Pence countered with his own visit to congressional Republicans. “The first order of business is to repeal and replace Obamacare,” Mr. Pence said. “It needs to be done. ” And Mr. Trump weighed in on Twitter, trying to stiffen Republican spines as Democrats press their point that a fast gutting of the law will endanger the health care of 20 million people covered under the law and put at risk tens of millions more with   health problems. “Schumer clowns” may not be an olive branch to Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the new minority leader, but it is a signal that the incoming president is ready for war over health care. “Republicans should stop clowning around with Americans’ Medicare, Medicaid and health care,” Mr. Schumer responded after meeting with the president. He warned that Republicans would “throw the entire health care system into chaos. ” Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House minority leader, tried to coin a phrase: “Make America sick again? Is that what Republicans want?” The Trump transition office named the lawyer Jay Clayton to be the next chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The last time Mr. Trump held a real news conference was on July 27, when he said President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia had called him a genius and wrongly insisted that “many people” saw bombs strewn all over the floor of the San Bernardino, Calif. attackers’ home and failed to report it. That long stretch without a real news media grilling did not do him much harm. He did, after all, win the election. But he says he will hold a true, open news conference next Wednesday. No word yet whether this session will take the place of the one he scheduled for last month, then canceled, to specifically reveal his plans for the future of his corporation."
44,17335,California Hires Eric Holder as Legal Bulwark Against Donald Trump - The New York Times,New York Times,Adam Nagourney,2017-01-05,2017.0,1.0,,"LOS ANGELES  —   Girding for four years of potential battles with   Donald J. Trump, Democratic leaders of the California Legislature announced Wednesday that they had hired Eric H. Holder Jr. who was attorney general under President Obama, to represent them in any legal fights against the new Republican White House. The decision by the Legislature to retain Mr. Holder, who is now a prominent Washington lawyer, is the latest sign of  the ideological battle that may play out over the next four years between this predominantly Democratic state and Washington. Hillary Clinton, the Democratic candidate for president, defeated Mr. Trump by more than four million votes here. “Having the former attorney general of the United States brings us a lot of firepower in order to prepare to safeguard the values of the people of California,” Kevin de León, the Democratic leader of the Senate, said in an interview. “This means we are very, very serious. ” Mr. de León said he expected California to challenge Washington  —   and defend itself from policies instituted in Washington  —   on issues including the environment, immigration and criminal justice. He said California Democrats decided to turn to Mr. Holder as they watched Mr. Trump assemble his cabinet and begin to set the tone for his presidency. “It was very clear that it wasn’t just campaign rhetoric,” Mr. de León said of Mr. Trump’s proposals over the past year. “He was surrounding himself with people who are a very clear and present danger to the economic prosperity of California. ” Mr. Trump did not immediately return requests for comment. The move by Mr. de León and his Democratic counterpart in the Assembly, Anthony Rendon, follows Gov. Jerry Brown’s appointment of Representative Xavier Becerra as attorney general last month, to succeed Kamala D. Harris, who was elected to the United States Senate. That appointment made Mr. Becerra one of the   Latino officials in this state, and he is expected to be instrumental in battling with the Trump White House over any attempt to enforce stringent measures aimed at immigrants. Mr. Brown has made clear that he intends to challenge the administration on global warming and that his attorney general will be a key to that battle. The Democratic Party controls   of both the Assembly and the Senate in California. Every statewide elected official is a Democrat. Mr. Holder was Mr. Obama’s attorney general from 2009 to 2015. He was the first   to hold that position. He is a partner at Covington  Burling, a law firm in Washington that specializes in representing states and companies against the federal government. “I am honored that the Legislature chose Covington to serve as its legal adviser as it considers how to respond to potential changes in federal law that could impact California’s residents and policy priorities,” Mr. Holder said in a statement. “I am confident that our expertise across a wide array of federal legal and regulatory issues will be a great resource to the Legislature. ” The Legislature has an ample stable of lawyers on staff, but officials said Mr. Holder and his firm brought specific litigation and political skills that could be needed in the coming years. Mr. de León said the final compensation for the firm had not been set, but would be publicly disclosed once it was. “The cost will be very minimal compared to the billions of dollars at stake if California doesn’t adequately make its case,” he said."
45,17336,Israeli Soldier Who Shot Wounded Palestinian Assailant Is Convicted - The New York Times,New York Times,Isabel Kershner,2017-01-05,2017.0,1.0,,"JERUSALEM  —   The fate of just one   Israeli soldier was hanging in the balance. But for many Israelis, the guilty verdict announced on Wednesday was a critical turn in the battle for the character of the state. When the military judges convicted Sgt. Elor Azaria of manslaughter for shooting a Palestinian assailant in the head as he lay wounded on the ground, they were ruling not just on his conduct but also on the host of ethical and political issues it raised. Since the shooting in the occupied West Bank city of Hebron in March, the case has polarized Israelis and rocked the pedestal on which the military normally stands. With the 50th anniversary of Israel’s occupation of the West Bank approaching, the highly charged trial had fueled a debate about military ethics and the place of the army in Israeli society. The verdict did little to heal the rifts the trial had exposed: Hours after it was rendered, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu joined a chorus of voices calling for the soldier to be pardoned. “This is a difficult and painful day for us all,” Mr. Netanyahu said in a Facebook post supporting a pardon, which can be granted by Israel’s president or the army’s top officials. Referring to the Israel Defense Forces, he added, “The soldiers of the I. D. F. are our sons and daughters, and they need to remain above any dispute. ” Prof. David Enoch, an expert in the philosophy of law at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, said he thought the manslaughter conviction was “justified” but added, “I’m not sure this verdict will be welcomed by many of the soldiers and much of the public. ” The military’s rules make clear that assailants must be quickly incapacitated, but that once the threat is neutralized, they should not be killed. Rights groups and other critics have accused Israeli soldiers and police officers of being too quick to pull the trigger, particularly in response to a recent spate of deadly stabbings, shootings and car attacks by Palestinians. The Hebron killing, caught in chilling completeness in a video that quickly went viral worldwide, for many critics crystallized the question of excessive force, and even military leaders said Sergeant Azaria acted without justification. But in Israel, a country where military service is a part of national identity, many Jews called for backing up young soldiers sent on dangerous missions and said that Sergeant Azaria had been in an impossible situation and had little chance of an acquittal, since that would have put his commanders in a bad light. Israel’s defense minister, Avigdor Lieberman, called Wednesday’s decision “a tough verdict. ” “The first thing I ask of all of us  —   those who like the verdict and those like me who like it much less  —   we are all obligated to respect the court’s decision,” Mr. Lieberman said. “We are obligated to maintain restraint. ” Mr. Lieberman, as a member of the parliamentary opposition before his cabinet appointment, had attended the military court to support Sergeant Azaria and called the legal proceedings a “theater of the absurd. ” But on Wednesday, he said, “We must keep the army above and beyond all political argument. ” Politicians to Mr. Netanyahu’s right and left have also called for a pardon, including the education minister, Naftali Bennett, and Shelly Yacimovich of the Labor Party, who said that “Azaria’s shoulders are too narrow to bear the entire weight of the fissure” the case has exposed. Some Israeli experts compared the Azaria verdict to the Kafr Qassem ruling of more than 60 years ago, after border police officers fatally shot 49 Arab men, women and children as they returned from work in the fields, unwittingly breaking a curfew. The murder convictions of officers in that case established that security forces must refuse to follow a “patently illegal order” that carries a “black flag” of criminality. It helped shape the army’s ethos. Now, some fear that in the lower ranks, it has begun to erode. In a measure of the tensions, the verdict was handed down in a special court inside the walled and heavily guarded compound of the military’s headquarters in Tel Aviv, rather than in the courtroom where the trial was held, to keep demonstrators at bay. Video footage showed Sergeant Azaria smiling as he entered the courtroom to applause, and he was embraced by his family and friends. Hundreds of protesters gathered outside the compound, shouting slogans like “free the boy. ” Col. Maya Heller, one of the military judges, spent more than two and a half hours delivering the verdict. She systematically rejected the main points of the defense and said there had been “no justification” for the shooting, according to reports from the courtroom. Describing Sergeant Azaria’s telling of the event as “twisting” and “evolving,” the judge said the defense had tried to “hold the rope at both ends. ” On one hand it asserted that the victim, Abed     appeared to pose a danger because he was still moving, and on the other it brought medical witnesses who contended that he was dead by the time Sergeant Azaria shot him in the head. The judge seemed to give great weight to statements Sergeant Azaria, a medic who was 19 at the time, made at the scene, indicating he had acted not out of fear but for revenge. A soldier testified that before the shooting, Sergeant Azaria had said, “How is it that my friend was stabbed and the terrorist is still alive?” After the shooting, a commander who was at the scene recalled Sergeant Azaria saying, “The terrorist deserved to die. ” Ilan Katz, one of Sergeant Azaria’s lawyers, vowed to appeal. The military’s high command had denounced the shooting immediately after it happened, calling it a grave breach of proper military conduct. But Israeli society was divided against the backdrop of continued Palestinian attacks, many   politicians and celebrities, along with Jewish parents of soldiers, hailed Sergeant Azaria as a hero. Mr. Netanyahu first condemned Sergeant Azaria’s actions, then phoned the soldier’s family to offer sympathy and reassurances that he would be treated fairly. Local television stations frequently showed images of Sergeant Azaria’s distraught parents hugging him in court. Appealing to public sentiment in a country blighted by wars and terrorism, and where most Jewish    are conscripted for up to 32 months of military service, his supporters portrayed him as “everybody’s child. ” In remarks recorded before the verdict, the military’s chief of staff, Lt. Gen. Gadi Eisenkot, tried to puncture that narrative. “An    in the Israeli Army is not ‘everybody’s child,’” he said. “He is a fighter, a soldier who must dedicate his life to carry out the tasks we give him. We cannot be confused about this. ” The episode began when two Palestinian men stabbed and wounded an Israeli soldier at a checkpoint in Hebron. Israeli soldiers killed one and wounded the other, Mr. Sharif, 21. Sergeant Azaria arrived at the scene about six minutes later. The video showed calm had been restored. Yet 11 minutes after the initial attack, he cocked his rifle and shot Mr. Sharif as he lay on the road. Lawyers representing Sergeant Azaria said he had acted to save his comrades, in the belief that Mr. Sharif, who was still moving, might have been concealing an explosive belt under his jacket. But Sergeant Azaria did not warn the other soldiers or the medical staff nearby to move away. During the trial, Sergeant Azaria’s company commander, Maj. Tom Naaman, said he “did not feel any danger” from Mr. Sharif, undercutting the defendant’s claims. Yusri   Mr. Sharif’s father, told reporters that the verdict was “a good step” but that he hoped there would be no lenience in the sentencing, which is scheduled for Jan. 15. Ahmad Tibi, an Arab member of the Israeli Parliament, said on  Twitter that dozens of soldiers and commanders who killed Palestinians should have been convicted. “Fifty years of occupation add up to much more than one Azaria,” Mr. Tibi wrote."
46,17337,Work. Walk 5 Minutes. Work. - The New York Times,New York Times,Gretchen Reynolds,2017-01-09,2017.0,1.0,,"Stuck at your work desk? Standing up and walking around for five minutes every hour during the workday could lift your mood, combat lethargy without reducing focus and attention, and even dull hunger pangs, according to an instructive new study. The study, which also found that frequent, brief walking breaks were more effective at improving   than a single, longer walk before work, could provide the basis for a simple, realistic New Year’s exercise resolution for those of us bound to our desks all day. There is growing evidence, of course, that long bouts of uninterrupted sitting can have undesirable physical and emotional consequences. Studies have shown that sitting motionless reduces blood flow to the legs, increasing the risk for atherosclerosis, the buildup of plaques in the arteries. People who sit for more than eight or nine hours daily, which for many of us describes a typical workday, also are at heightened risk for diabetes, depression and obesity compared with people who move more often. In response, researchers and some bosses have proposed a variety of methods for helping people reduce their sitting time at work, including standing workstations and treadmill desks. But such options are cumbersome and costly, making them impractical for many work situations. Some experts have worried, too, that if people are physically active at the office, they might subsequently become more tired, grumpy, distracted or hungry, any of which could have an undesirable effect on work performance and   health. So for the new study, which was published in November in the International Journal of Behavioral Nutrition and Physical Activity, researchers from the University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, the Johnson  Johnson Human Performance Institute and other institutions decided to test several methods of increasing movement among office workers. (The study was funded largely by Johnson  Johnson, with additional support from the Colorado Nutrition Obesity Research Center.) To start, the researchers invited 30 sedentary adult office workers to a university clinic to complete a battery of health tests and questionnaires. The researchers measured their heart rates and stress hormone levels and asked them to rank, on a numerical scale, how energetic or tired they felt, as well as how happy they were, and whether they were feeling peckish or had little appetite just then. The volunteers also completed computerized games designed primarily to test their ability to concentrate and make decisions. Then, on three subsequent visits to the clinic, each volunteer simulated a   workday. During one visit, the volunteers sat for the whole time with no interruptions, except for bathroom breaks. During another, they walked moderately for 30 minutes at the start of their experimental day, and then sat for the next five and a half hours with no additional scheduled breaks. Finally, during a third visit, the volunteers sat for most of the six hours, but began each hour with five minutes of moderate walking, using treadmills at the clinic. At the start and end of each session, the researchers drew blood to check levels of stress hormones. And periodically throughout each day, they asked their volunteers to numerically rate their moods, energy, fatigue and appetites. The volunteers also repeated the computerized testing of their thinking skills at the close of each session. The researchers then analyzed the data. The numbers showed that on almost all measures, the subjects’ ratings of how they were feeling rose when they did not sit for six uninterrupted hours. They said that they felt much more energetic throughout the day if they had been active, whether that activity was bunched into a single longish walk at the start of the day or distributed into multiple brief breaks. On other measures, though, the   walks were more potent than the concentrated   version. When the workers rose most often, they reported greater happiness, less fatigue and considerably less craving for food than on either of the other days. Their feelings of vigor also tended to increase throughout the day, while they often had plateaued by early afternoon after walking only once in the morning. There were no differences on the scores on the cognitive tests, whether they sat all day or got up and moved. Stress hormones also remained steady during each visit. These results suggest that “even a little bit of activity, spread throughout the day, is a practical, easy way to improve ” says Jack Groppel, a study author and a founder of the Johnson  Johnson Human Performance Institute. He points out that the walking breaks did not cause people to feel more tired or hungry, but instead had the opposite effect. They also did not alter people’s ability to focus, so, in theory, should not affect productivity (for good or ill). This study, however, was small in scale,   and limited by its dependence on the volunteers’ perceptions of their responses to the experiment. But even so, “it’s clear that moving matters,” Dr. Groppel says. So set your 2017 appointment calendar, he suggests, to devote five minutes every hour to physical activity, whether you walk up and down a staircase, along a corridor or just pace around your office."
47,17338,It’s Time to Ignore Advice About Which Stocks to Buy in 2017 - The New York Times,New York Times,Damon Darlin,2017-01-09,2017.0,1.0,,"It’s that time of year when financial advice sites issue their lists of the “Stocks to Buy for 2017. ” Before you take them up on their suggestions, let’s look at how well such portfolios did in 2016. The portfolios of stocks they were telling you to buy generally did much worse than the stock market over all. The results underline what many personal finance experts recommend: Invest in a broad,   mutual index fund. (The Times’s “Your Money” columnist wrote more on this here.) In 2016, the broad S. P. stock index increased 9. 5 percent. But if you invested in Forbes’s 2016 list, your money grew about 7 percent. Kiplinger’s was about half that. A list that appeared on the Money magazine site garnered 4. 9 percent, and Barron’s returned 5. 3 percent. One such list at CNBC did a little better than most at 10. 6 percent. But Vanguard’s Total Stock index fund returned 12. 5 percent in the same period. We even calculated these returns by assuming that any of the dividends were reinvested, but still none beat the widely owned index fund. There is nothing wrong with these lists if you are using them as mere suggestions of what companies might be worth investigating. There were some bona fide winners on almost every list: Goldman Sachs, Kennametal, Ellie Mae, Douglas Dynamics,   Burlington Stores. You might not have heard of some of those companies, so it’s not a bad place to look for ideas. But the problem with such lists is that they encourage people to approach investing the wrong way. Unsophisticated investors are being persuaded that they should own a sheaf of stocks. But as you can see, even when the stocks are recommended by professional money managers and filtered through some of the best financial journalists, they don’t do as well as the averages. The best advice remains the same: If you have money you want to play with, go have some fun with a few stocks that you can monitor closely. If you keep it simple, it’s easier to track and respond. But for the rest of us, the smart investment is  those index funds. They cost less than stocks or other funds. They remove most of the emotion from your decision making, which is the cause of a lot of bad decisions. That’s your best bet in 2017."
49,17340,Anchor Becomes the News as Megyn Kelly Leaves Fox News for NBC - The New York Times,New York Times,John Koblin and Michael M. Grynbaum,2017-01-04,2017.0,1.0,,"Megyn Kelly’s new office at NBC News sits a block north of Fox News headquarters in Midtown Manhattan. But it might as well be a world away. In switching networks at a pivotal point in her career, Ms. Kelly, the No.   personality in cable television news, is taking a calculated risk that she can swap her dedicated Fox audience for the broader, but more fickle, viewership of network television. There are challenges from the  . Her splashy arrival has the potential to fray nerves among the big personalities at the network  —   who already compete against one another for interviews and scoops. Ms. Kelly, 46, will also be taking on a daytime talk show format that has been a virtual graveyard for television news personalities in the last 10 years. And the new Sunday newsmagazine show that NBC plans to build around Ms. Kelly will go up against a giant that has not been meaningfully challenged for decades: “60 Minutes” on CBS. Still, Ms. Kelly is a bona fide star with a   book and a breakout role in this year’s presidential campaign, when she clashed with Donald J. Trump. NBC News comes out the winner in one of the most closely watched talent sweepstakes in years, acquiring one of television’s biggest names who could play a role in any number of major network events, like coverage of elections or the Olympics. Interviews on Tuesday with network executives and producers  —   from Fox, NBC and other rival channels  —   suggest that Ms. Kelly’s performance at NBC will be as closely watched in the industry as her past few months of contract negotiations. Ms. Kelly will have to design her daytime talk show from scratch. Even though she made her name as a news anchor, she has argued that she is not obsessed with politics. When she hosted a   special on Fox in May  —   her first major foray outside cable news  —   she expressed a desire to combine the qualities of Oprah Winfrey, Barbara Walters and Charlie Rose. That special  —   which featured interviews with Mr. Trump, the celebrity lawyer Robert Shapiro and the actress Laverne Cox  —   received middling reviews. It was far from a ratings hit: Among adults younger than 50, the demographic most important to broadcasters, Ms. Kelly’s special performed about as well as ABC’s “Beyond the Tank,” a   spinoff. A daily daytime talk show also poses risks.   talent like Jane Pauley, Meredith Vieira, Katie Couric and Anderson Cooper have taken a stab at the genre in the past, and each one failed. In Ms. Pauley’s case, NBC invested millions of dollars, but the show was yanked in 2005 after just one year. NBC said on Tuesday that Ms. Kelly’s show was expected to be closer to a news program than the typical daytime talk show, although it is unclear what exactly that will mean or how much appetite there is for news amid a landscape including shows like “Days of Our Lives,” “The Ellen DeGeneres Show” and “Steve Harvey. ” The audience for daytime television is also significantly more diverse than Fox’s   viewership. Starting a Sunday rival to “60 Minutes,” the   among newsmagazines, is likewise no easy task. “Rock Center,” which Brian Williams hosted, lasted two seasons. NBC’s most recent newsmagazine, “On Assignment,” ran    against “60 Minutes” over five weeks the show averaged about four million viewers, compared with more than nine million for “60 Minutes,” which broadcast two repeats during that time. (This season, “60 Minutes” is averaging more than 14 million viewers.) It is also unclear how NBC will accommodate Ms. Kelly’s show during the National Football League season, when NBC’s popular “Sunday Night Football” package includes a highly rated pregame show that begins at 7 p. m. Eastern. But Andrew Lack, NBC News’s chairman, has long had newsmagazines in his blood. In addition to overseeing a “60 Minutes” competitor on CBS in the 1980s, Mr. Lack presided over NBC in the 1990s when newsmagazines, including the network’s popular “Dateline,” dominated   lineups. Fox, meanwhile, must now set a course without one of its biggest names, as the network continues to recalibrate itself after the ouster of its chairman, Roger Ailes. Ms. Kelly’s exit from Fox News was so abrupt that it was announced on the day that the network had run a   ad in The Wall Street Journal trumpeting the ratings of its   lineup, with Ms. Kelly prominently pictured. Her departure stunned the Fox newsroom, where journalists and executives spent Tuesday afternoon speculating over which anchor might replace Ms. Kelly in the coveted 9 p. m. slot  —   and wondering if Ms. Kelly would even appear that night. When Greta Van Susteren, another veteran anchor, announced her departure in September, network representatives visited her home to tell her not to bother coming in. In the end, Ms. Kelly was granted a chance to bid farewell to Fox News viewers  —   her last show is Friday. It is not clear who will replace her. Fox News has never had an     lineup. Potential replacements being floated inside the network on Tuesday include four women who have regularly filled in for Ms. Kelly: Sandra Smith, a host of Fox’s noon show, “Outnumbered” Trish Regan, a rising star at Fox Business Network Shannon Bream, who covers the Supreme Court and Martha MacCallum, a morning anchor. Kimberly Guilfoyle, a host of “The Five” who is friendly with Mr. Trump’s circle, and Tucker Carlson, who has put up high ratings since taking over Fox News’s 7 p. m. slot, have also been suggested. Sean Hannity, whose viewership at 10 p. m. increased enormously in 2016 and has spiked since Election Day, could be moved up an hour, but his momentum in his time slot may make Fox executives reluctant to make a switch. One winner in the sweepstakes for Ms. Kelly could be CNN, even though it did not succeed in recruiting her. CNN, while still behind Fox News in total viewers by a wide margin, has occasionally beaten Fox among viewers 25 to 54, the demographic that determines advertising rates. In 2016, CNN finished within 58, 000 viewers of Fox in prime time in the demographic  —   cutting Fox’s lead in half. Since the election, Fox has regained a sizable lead, but now, without spending a penny, CNN will now have an opportunity to take another run at Fox’s   advantage."
50,17341,President Xi’s Great Chinese Soccer Dream - The New York Times,New York Times,Chris Buckley,2017-02-01,2017.0,2.0,,"QINGYUAN, China  —   The 48 soccer fields of the vast Evergrande Football School in south China seem barely enough for its 2, 800 students. Against a backdrop of school spires that seem modeled on Hogwarts, the young athletes swarm onto the fields nearly every day, kicking, dribbling and passing in the hope of soccer glory and riches. “Soccer will be my career after I grow up,” Wang Kai, a gangly    who has studied at the boarding school for over three years, said after a morning session under the supervision of a Spanish coach. “I want to be the Chinese Cristiano Ronaldo,” he said, referring to the Portuguese superstar. Grooming the next Ronaldo or Messi has become a national project in China, where the country’s No. 1 fan, President Xi Jinping, is bent on transforming the country into a great soccer power. It is a moonshot for China, whose teams have ranked poor to middling in recent international competition. But the effort has already unleashed a surge of spending and support for the game that has stunned fans and players around the world. In the last two weeks, the main Chinese league has plucked foreign stars from Europe and South America with contracts reported to be worth as much as $40 million a year, the highest pay for any soccer player in the world. A Chinese club offered the real Ronaldo $105 million a year, but he declined, his agent said last week. These giddying sums are shaking the landscape of pro soccer. Antonio Conte, the manager of England’s fabled Chelsea team, denounced the Chinese spending spree last month as a “danger for all teams in the world. ” The drive to match China’s economic ascent with success on the soccer field has become emblematic of Mr. Xi’s ambition to transform China into a great and confident power. “My biggest hope for Chinese soccer is that its teams become among the world’s best,” he announced in 2015. In the last two years, the government has poured the kind of concentrated effort into soccer that it has previously devoted to winning Olympic medals in individual sports like diving and gymnastics. It has promised to clean up and reorganize professional soccer and build a new generation of players by creating tens of thousands of soccer fields and adding soccer programs in tens of thousands of schools. The aim is to establish a flow of top players eventually capable of winning the coveted men’s World Cup and returning the women’s team to its former glory. That effort has emboldened Chinese clubs to spend lavishly. As well as paying tens of millions for foreign players, Chinese team owners have spent hundreds of millions of dollars buying into European clubs, hoping to tap their coaching and marketing expertise. “Current spending has created massive expectations,” said Simon Chadwick, a professor of sports enterprise at the University of Salford in Britain. “Spending big on players is also about acquiring heroes and icons. ” But if soccer distills Mr. Xi’s national ambitions, it also illustrates how his plans could falter, as they have in other arenas, in a muddle of rushed and distorted enforcement, especially at the local level. There has been resistance by parents, worried about their children taking precious time away from academics, as well as fear that splurging on foreign stars diverts money and attention from fostering homegrown talent. The pitfalls in fixing soccer, it turns out, are a bit like those in fixing the economy a desire for quick, flashy success is putting   goals at risk. People’s Daily, the main newspaper of the Communist Party, warned last month of a “bubble” of reckless spending in Chinese professional soccer that could burst and badly damage the sport. Too many investors had feverish expectations, while some clubs, officials and schools were only going through the motions of developing young players, the newspaper said. “One of the biggest problems is ” said Cameron Wilson, a Scottish resident of Shanghai who edits Wild East Football, a website that follows the sport in China. “There are these great plans and ideas. But when it gets down to the   level in the provinces, it’s like people doing their own thing. ” China’s passionate soccer fans would be thrilled to have competitive national teams instead of the lackluster ones they have now. The national men’s team recently placed 83rd in FIFA rankings, just ahead of the Faroe Islands, a remote outcrop of Denmark with fewer than 50, 000 inhabitants, and it is unlikely to win a spot in the 2018 World Cup. The women’s team  —   the pride of Chinese soccer in past decades  —   has stumbled. It was   for the Women’s World Cup in 1999 but slipped to 13th in the latest  rankings. “The national team is a joke,” said Xu Yun, 16, who had come to Workers’ Stadium in Beijing to watch his favorite Beijing team clobber a listless opponent from Henan Province. “I think it will need decades to get it right. It’s not just a question of spending money, it’s attitude. ” For years, the domestic professional game was riddled with corruption, brazen even by China’s   standards. Since   revelations grew into a national scandal in 2009, the worst cheating has been cleaned up. “It still exists,” Mr. Wilson said. “Just not so blatantly. ” For Xi, soccer has been a passion since childhood. His trips abroad have included photographs with David Beckham and other soccer celebrities. In Ireland in 2012, he famously had an enthusiastic but seemingly rusty go at kicking a ball. In September, he revisited his old school in Beijing, where he learned to kick and became a fan of the game, according to memoirs of his former teacher. “Look how healthy I am,” Mr. Xi told young soccer players at the school. “I laid the basis for that through sports when I was young. ” Private investors have piled into professional soccer, encouraged by Xi’s backing for the game and apparently eager to curry favor with his government. In the main pro trading season last year, the 16 Chinese Super League teams spent about $300 million hiring away promising foreign players, outstripping player spending by the English Premier League by nearly $120 million, according to FIFA TMS, a player transfer data company. Prices in 2017 are likely to go even higher. But Mr. Xi’s focus is on the long game and the next generation of players. His plan calls for 50, 000 schools to have a strong emphasis on soccer by 2025, a leap from 5, 000 in 2015. The number of soccer fields across the country will grow to over 70, 000 by the end of 2020, from under 11, 000. By then, the plan says, 50 million Chinese, including 30 million students, will regularly play soccer. “Now principals at every school are paying quite a bit more attention to soccer,” said Dai Wei, the athletic director at r. Xi’s old school, the Bayi School. “That was unthinkable before. ” Yet there is deep cultural resistance, even at Bayi. Some parents discourage their children from committing time to sports, Mr. Dai said, because they have so much homework and face stiff competition on academic exams. While China has excelled at individual sports that demand intense discipline from an early age, the country has not done as well at fostering group sports, where skills like teamwork and improvisation count as much as personal virtuosity. The privately run Evergrande school, the world’s biggest soccer boarding school, says its formula of intense training combined with a solid education could show the way for developing young players. “As more soccer schools are built, there’ll be more and more kids playing, and the stars will multiply, too,” said Liu Jiangnan, the principal of the school, which opened in 2012. “I’d guess that in seven or eight years, half the members of the Chinese national squad will come from this school. ” Drawn by such hopes, parents pay up to about $8, 700 a year to send children here, where 24 Spanish coaches oversee training. Students spend 90 minutes a day on drills and also play on weekends. Promising players get scholarships, and children from poorer families get discounts, school officials said. But even here, the children come to the game later than their European and South American counterparts, and they often lack solid grounding in teamwork and tactics, said Sergio Zarco Diaz, a Spanish coach. “The kids are getting better, year by year,” he said hopefully. But the Evergrande approach is too expensive to be widely copied. Some schools, facing a shortage of coaches and space for fields, have devised their own drills, like soccer gymnastics, in which children stand in lines tossing a ball up, down and around. It may impress visiting officials, but it is scant preparation for the free flow of the game, said Zhang Lu, a widely respected soccer commentator. “Chinese soccer has failed before through rushing for instant success,” Mr. Zhang said in an interview in Beijing, recalling previous failed efforts to build up the game in the 1980s and 1990s. “The problem is that everyone’s thinking is still deeply set in traditional ideas. Everyone thinks soccer is just about getting results, competition, training, creating stars. ” Mr. Zhang has instead been encouraging schools to focus on fun and broad participation. That approach gives more children a break from the monotony of the classroom and will eventually bring out more future champions than an elitist,   approach, he argues. Some schools are trying his way. On a recent afternoon, the smog that often covers Beijing lifted and the children of Caoqiao Elementary School rushed onto the fields, shouting and squealing with delight. “This morning soccer had been canceled because of the smog,” said the principal, Lin Yanling. “But at midday I notified the kids that it was back on, and they all went crazy with relief. ”"
51,17342,Tech Giants Seem Invincible. That Worries Lawmakers. - The New York Times,New York Times,Farhad Manjoo,2017-01-05,2017.0,1.0,,"In the technology industry, the sharks have never long been safe from the minnows. Over much of the last 40 years, the biggest players in tech  —   from IBM to   to Cisco to Yahoo  —   were eventually outmaneuvered by   that came out of nowhere. The dynamic is so dependable that it is often taken to be a kind of axiom. To grow large in this business is also to grow slow, blind and dumb, to become closed off from the very sources of innovation that turned you into a shark in the first place. Then, in the last half decade, something strange happened: The sharks began to get bigger and smarter. Nearly a year ago, I argued that we were witnessing a new era in the tech business, one that is typified less by the storied   in a garage than by a posse I like to call the Frightful Five: Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Alphabet, Google’s parent company. Together the Five compose a new superclass of American corporate might. For much of last year, their further rise and domination over the rest of the global economy looked not just plausible, but also maybe even probable. In 2017, much the same story remains, but there is a new wrinkle: The world’s governments are newly motivated to take on the tech giants. In the United States, Europe, Asia and South America, the Five find themselves increasingly arrayed against legal and regulatory powers, and often even against popular will. The precise nature of the fights varies by company and region, including the tax and antitrust investigations of Apple and Google in Europe and Donald J. Trump’s broad and often incoherent criticism of the Five for various alleged misdeeds. This is the story that will shape the contours of the next great era in tech: Five huge companies that can only get bigger are set against governments that increasingly see them as a clear threat to governing authority. So, happy New Year. Let’s start with some stats. In 2017, the Five are bigger than ever. As in 2016, they are half of the world’s 10 most valuable companies, when measured by stock market value. Their wealth stems from their control of the inescapable digital infrastructure on which much of the rest of the economy depends  —   mobile phones, social networks, the web, the cloud, retail and logistics, and the data and computing power required for future breakthroughs. Meanwhile, the Five are poised to jump beyond their corner of the lagoon. Over the last few years they have begun to set their sights on the biggest industries outside tech  —   on autos, health care, retail, transportation, entertainment and finance. The Five aren’t exactly immune to business cycles. Apple’s sales were flat last year, and after a monster 2016, Alphabet’s stock price hit a plateau. The Five also aren’t entirely safe from competition from   and one of the persistent features of the tech industry is that some of the most perilous threats to giants are the hardest to spot. Still, at the moment, thanks to smart acquisition strategies and a   outlook, the Five sure do look insulated from competition from   today’s most valuable tech upstarts, like Airbnb, Uber and Snap, could grow quite huge and still pose little threat to the collective fortunes of the Frightful Five. What has changed is public perception. For years, most of the Five enjoyed broad cultural good will. They were portrayed in the news media as forces of innovation and delight, as the best that American capitalism had to offer. The exceptions were Microsoft, which reached towering heights through corporate ruthlessness in the 1990s, and Amazon, which got under people’s skin for, among other things, making books cheaper and more widely accessible, thereby hurting bookstores. But generally people loved tech giants. They had gotten huge just the way you’re supposed to in America  —   by inventing new stuff that people love. And even their worst sins weren’t considered that bad. They weren’t causing environmental disasters. They weren’t selling cigarettes. They weren’t bringing the world to economic ruin through dangerous financial shenanigans. After I noted the Five’s growing invincibility last year, the biggest pushback I got from people at these companies had to do with the moniker I had given them: Why hadn’t I called them the Fabulous Five? Over the last year perception began to change. Familiarity breeds contempt as technology wormed deeper into our lives, it began to feel less like an unalloyed good and more like every other annoyance we have to deal with. Silicon Valley grew cloistered, missing people’s unease with the speed with which their innovations were changing our lives. When Apple took on the Federal Bureau of Investigation last year over access to a terrorist’s iPhone, many in tech sided with the company, but a majority of Americans thought Apple should give in. During the long presidential campaign, Mr. Trump said a lot of things that people in tech found ridiculous. He vowed to call on Bill Gates to help him shut down the parts of the internet that terrorists were using. He promised to force Apple to make iPhones in America. He suggested that The Washington Post was running critical stories about him because its owner, Jeff Bezos, was scared that Mr. Trump would pursue antitrust charges against Mr. Bezos’s main company, Amazon. Few in the tech industry supported Mr. Trump, but the industry’s antipathy seemed to matter little to the public. For years, most of the Frightful Five were given the benefit of the doubt as economic disrupters that were undercutting the cultural and economic power of the big industries that many people despised  —   entertainment giants, cable and phone companies, and the news media, among others. “During the periods where incumbents are battling disrupters, in general the U. S. has done a good job of encouraging disrupters,” said Julius Genachowski, the former chairman of the Federal Communications Commission who is now a partner at the Carlyle Group, a private equity firm. That describes the general direction of policy during the Obama administration. The tech giants were less giant for much of the Obama years, and various parts of the United States regulatory and legal infrastructure sought to protect and nurture them. During Mr. Genachowski’s term at the F. C. C. and then again during the term of his successor, Tom Wheeler, the commission passed rules favoring “network neutrality,” which declared that telecommunications companies could not favor some kinds of content online over others. It was a policy broadly favored by tech companies. But as Mr. Genachowski noted, as the disrupters grow, the dynamic often shifts. “The next part of the arc is that disrupters become very successful and in some ways turn into incumbents, and then you see two things  —   battles between incumbents and other incumbents, and a next generation of disrupters tackling incumbents,” he said. That’s where we are now. The Five have become incumbents themselves, and they are more likely to be treated as such by governments, who will look to both sides of the ledger  —   their benefits to society as well as their potential costs  —   when deciding how to police them. But there’s a twist: With the Five, unlike in previous eras of tech, it is not clear that there are many potential disrupters among today’s  . The battles for dominance in cloud services, artificial intelligence and data mining,   assistants,   cars, virtual reality and most every other Next Big Thing are being waged among the Five. That could likely raise the hackles of regulators and lawmakers even more and depending on your position on corporate power versus governmental power, things could be fabulous, or frightful."
54,17346,How ‘Elites’ Became One of the Nastiest Epithets in American Politics - The New York Times,New York Times,Beverly Gage,2017-01-07,2017.0,1.0,,"Our new president is a    billionaire Ivy League graduate, a real estate tycoon, a TV star and a son of inherited wealth. But he is no longer, by his own calculations, a member of the “elite. ” Nor are the men (and the few women) now joining his inner circle  —     and corporate executives, Harvard and Yale alumni, Silicon Valley entrepreneurs and Goldman Sachs bankers. The true elite apparently sits elsewhere, among those who, in Sarah Palin’s notable 2008 formulation, think “that they’re  —   I guess  —   better than anyone else. ” As an adjective, the word “elite” still conveys something positive, even aspirational: elite athlete, elite model, elite travel services. But as a noun, embodied by actual living people, it has become one of the nastiest epithets in American politics. “Elites have taken all the upside for themselves and pushed the downside to the   and   Americans,” complains Trump’s adviser Steve Bannon (of Harvard, Goldman Sachs and Hollywood). In this formulation, elites are a destructive, condescending collective, plotting against the beleaguered masses outside their ranks. And in these attacks, the   and his team are deploying one of the most effective partisan political stereotypes of the modern age. For most of American history,   sentiment was a matter of up versus down, not left versus right. But about half a century ago, the conservative movement set out to claim   politics as its own. That meant redefining the term away from class and toward culture, where the “elite” could be identified by its liberal ideas, coastal real estate and highbrow consumer preferences. The   Club for Growth captured this type in a famous 2004 attack ad, instructing the Democrat Howard Dean to “take his           New York         freak show back to Vermont where it belongs. ” Trump adjusted the formula for the hot topics of the 2016 campaign. “I was on the right side of that issue, as you know, with the people,” he boasted after Brexit, adding that “Hillary, as always, stood with the elites. ” His complaints against “political correctness” conjure a world of absurdist campus politics, where overprivileged students squabble over gender pronouns and the fine points of racial victimization. “Media elites” come in for special attack, cordoned off in pens to be mocked and jeered at during rallies, labeled both liars and incompetents. But Trump has also ventured beyond mere   turning the 2016 election into a competition between knowledge systems: the      “people” versus the    “elites. ” His campaign insisted for months that pollsters and technocrats and media would be proven wrong by his electoral success. The fact that he did win dealt a blow to an entire worldview, one in which empirical inquiry and   were supposed to triumph in the end. The question, now, is whether it’s possible to run an executive branch based on hostility toward experts and professionals of all political stripes  —   and how many billionaires and Ivy Leaguers Trump can appoint before this rhetorical pose begins to break down altogether. The notion that distant elites might be conspiring against the people comes straight from the Founding Fathers, whose Declaration of Independence lamented the “long train of abuses and usurpations” inflicted upon ordinary Americans by an arrogant British king. From there on, United States history might be seen as a repeating cycle of   revolt. The Jacksonians rebelled against the Founders’ aristocratic pretensions. Northern “free labor” went to war against the oligarchical slavocracy. And the Populist revolts of the late 19th century adapted this story to modern capitalism, with farmers and laborers rebelling against robber barons, bankers,   experts and   professionals. The first historians to study those Populists described them as heroic crusaders, champions of the “people” against the “powers. ” But by the middle of the 20th century, alarmed by the rise of fascism and homegrown demagogues like Senator Joseph McCarthy, a new generation of scholars took a more anxious view of the   spirit. In his 1955 book “The Age of Reform,” Richard Hofstadter dismissed the Populists as   provincial   the latent fascists of their day. Eight years later, his “  in American Life” documented a dangerous suspicion of “the critical mind” that seemed to course through the national culture. From his perspective, the 1952 election captured everything wrong with American political life, with Dwight Eisenhower’s “philistinism” winning over Adlai Stevenson’s “intellect. ” Hofstadter did not usually describe his ideal intellectually minded citizens as members of an “elite. ” That word conveyed something different  —   a ruling class that held direct political and economic power. The most famous articulation of this view came from the sociologist C. Wright Mills, in his 1956 assessment of America’s “power elite. ” “They rule the big corporations,” Mills wrote. “They run the machinery of the state and claim its prerogatives. They direct the military establishment. ” In Mills’s view, these people were tied together not by culture or ideology but by their positions at the helms of large,    institutions. As individuals, they might be Republicans or Democrats, and might live in Ohio or California. The point was that they were in charge of things. But that vision never gained much traction in mainstream politics, where a more partisan, targeted definition was starting to emerge. William F. Buckley Jr. carved out some essentials in his first book, “God and Man at Yale,” drawing a neat distinction between respectable   men like himself and the socialistic eggheads of the professoriate. Ronald Reagan chose the term “elite” to bring it all together in his famed 1964 speech, “A Time for Choosing,” delivered on behalf of the Republican presidential candidate Barry Goldwater. “This is the issue of this election,” he said: “whether we believe in our capacity for   or whether we abandon the American Revolution and confess that a little intellectual elite in a   capitol can plan our lives for us better than we can plan them ourselves. ” Lyndon Johnson won that election in a blowout, but Reagan’s vision of a smug and detached liberal elite helped spark the oncoming “culture wars,” pitting a supposedly indignant Middle America against the liberal snobs of the coasts. By the 1990s, with the rise of   media stars like Rush Limbaugh and Bill O’Reilly, bashing the “liberal elite” had become a favorite blood sport of the American right. Despite all the abuse hurled their way, some “liberal elites” have accepted at least part of their detractors’ critique, particularly on the progressive left. It was during Bill Clinton’s presidency that the social critic Christopher Lasch published “The Revolt of the Elites and the Betrayal of Democracy,” which mourned that “   liberals” had turned into “petulant,   intolerant” scolds, thoroughly out of touch with the concerns of Middle America. Since then, the torch has passed to a younger generation of writers, including MSNBC’s Chris Hayes, whose 2012 “Twilight of the Elites” called for rethinking the entire ethos of liberal “meritocracy”  —   a system, he argued, that tends to fuel   and incompetence at the top while offering little but contempt and dim prospects for those at the bottom. So as 2017 begins, we find ourselves in a strange and uncertain political moment. Antipathy toward a wealthy, preening managerial class seems to be gaining popularity across the political spectrum  —   and, oddly, to have helped elect a wealthy, preening incoming president. Meanwhile, both liberal and conservative “elites” are scrambling to figure out what happens if the   continues to reject basic political norms and even routine intelligence briefings. Under a Trump presidency, such “elites” may have no choice but to attempt a radical redefinition of their role in American life. Otherwise, the man in the White House will do it for them."
57,17349,Senate Republicans Open Fight Over Obama Health Law - The New York Times,New York Times,Thomas Kaplan and Glenn Thrush,2017-01-05,2017.0,1.0,,"WASHINGTON  —   Congress opened for battle over the Affordable Care Act on Wednesday as Republicans pushed immediately forward to repeal the health care law and President Obama made a rare trip to Capitol Hill to defend it. The bitterness that has long marked the fight intensified as Republicans seized the opportunity to make good on a central campaign promise to get rid of the law, a pledge reinforced on Wednesday by Vice   Mike Pence, who met with House Republicans not far from where the president gathered with Democrats. The Affordable Care Act, Mr. Obama’s signature health care law, has created online insurance marketplaces, offered new protections to people seeking health insurance, and provided coverage to millions of people near the poverty line through expanded Medicaid. Health policy experts say that system could collapse if Republicans cut off funds for the expanded coverage and end penalties for people who go without health insurance. “The American people voted decisively for a better future for health care in this country,” Mr. Pence said, “and we are determined to give them that. ” He said that   Donald J. Trump would use his executive authority to help make the transition away from the health care law, but did not offer specifics. Democrats vowed aggressive resistance, however, and said they would not participate in drawing up a replacement for the law after the swift efforts to unravel it. Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the new Democratic leader, playing off Mr. Trump’s campaign slogan, said repealing the law would “make America sick again. ” Republicans are using a procedural approach that will allow them to repeal substantial parts of the health care law without Democrats’ being able to mount a filibuster in the Senate. By a vote of 51 to 48 on Wednesday, the Senate took the first step, agreeing to take up a budget resolution, or blueprint, that would clear the way for legislation repealing major provisions of the  law. But even as Republicans spoke of moving quickly to repeal the law, it remained far less clear how and when they would go about replacing it. Senate debate on the budget resolution is expected to continue for several days, and the House plans to take up the measure once the Senate has approved it. As Republicans charged ahead, both sides seemed cognizant of the possible fallout from unwinding the law, which has become deeply enmeshed with America’s health care system and has provided insurance for about 20 million people. Mr. Trump weighed in with several Twitter posts. He advised that Republicans needed to “be careful in that the Dems own the failed Obamacare disaster,” and added, “Don’t let the Schumer clowns out of this web. ” Mr. Trump predicted that the health care law would “fall of its own weight. ” Representative Chris Collins of New York, a Republican who is one of Mr. Trump’s top supporters in Congress and is part of his transition team, said it was important to be sure that Democrats bear responsibility for the failings of the health care law. Republicans point out that premiums have risen and that consumers in many places have fewer choices of insurers. “We have to make sure we keep reminding America, we are repealing it because it failed, we are repealing it because they all but demanded that we repeal it,” Mr. Collins said. “And that was a key piece of Donald Trump’s campaign. ” But as Republicans expressed eagerness to repeal the law, they acknowledged that replacing it would take more time. It is also unclear how insurance companies will react during this period and whether they will continue to offer the marketplace plans that millions of people have come to rely on. “There will naturally be a reasonable transition period,” said Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas. “You can’t adopt new reforms all at once. ” Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Senate Republican, noted that it had taken six years to get into “the ditch we find ourselves in now. ” “When your truck or car is in a ditch, the first thing you need to do is get out of the ditch,” Mr. Cornyn said. “And sometimes that takes a lot of hard work. ” To that, Senator Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan, parried that when a car goes into a ditch, “the first thing I don’t do is dismantle the car. ” “That doesn’t help me get anywhere in terms of transportation,” she said. Democrats signaled little interest in helping Republicans determine what to do after repealing major parts of the health care law. Mr. Schumer predicted that in a year, Republicans would “regret that they came out so fast out of the box. ” He said Democrats would consider working on a replacement only after Republicans presented their own plan. “If you are repealing, show us what you’ll replace it with first,” Mr. Schumer said. “Then we’ll look at what you have and see what we can do. ” Later, Mr. Schumer said of Mr. Trump, “It’s his and their responsibility, plain and simple  —   name calling isn’t going to get anything done. ” He added, “They really need to calm things down a little. ” Speaker Paul D. Ryan tried to offer assurance that no change in coverage would be abrupt. “The point is, in 2017, we don’t want people to be caught with nothing,” he said. “We want to make sure that there’s an orderly transition so that the rug is not pulled out from under the families who are currently struggling under Obamacare while we bring relief. ” Mr. Obama huddled with congressional Democrats for about 90 minutes in what was billed by the White House as a strategy session to forge a unified Democratic response to the Republicans’ rollback effort. In reality, the session was essentially a   party for a man who passed his signature legislative accomplishment under   majorities in Congress and a “pep rally” for Affordable Care Act defenders, in the words of an attendee, Representative Hank Johnson, Democrat of Georgia. The gathering, which could be Mr. Obama’s last trip to the halls of Congress that have been the site of alternating triumph and defeat, had a     air, with numerous Democratic lawmakers, including Mr. Johnson, sneaking out to attend to business more pressing than hearing the president’s words. Mr. Obama, for his part, did not ask his allies to block all efforts to alter the law, but warned Democrats against “rescuing” Republicans by defecting on votes that would dismantle it. The president provided an array of arguments for keeping the Affordable Care Act and offered a mild mea culpa for his shortcomings as a salesman over the years. Senator Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, said, “He acknowledged the failures in selling the law in its entirety to the American people. ”"
58,17350,The Parliamentary Tactic That Could Obliterate Obamacare - The New York Times,New York Times,Robert Pear,2017-01-05,2017.0,1.0,,"WASHINGTON  —   Republicans hope to repeal major parts of the Affordable Care Act using an expedited procedure known as budget reconciliation. The process is sometimes called arcane, but it has been used often in the past 35 years to write some of the nation’s most important laws. “Reconciliation is probably the most potent budget enforcement tool available to Congress for a large portion of the budget,” the Congressional Research Service, a nonpartisan arm of Congress, has said. Here is a primer. Q. What is the budget reconciliation process? A. It is a way for Congress to speed action on legislation that changes taxes or spending, especially spending for entitlement programs like Medicare and Medicaid. Although conceived primarily as a way to reduce federal budget deficits, it has also been used to cut taxes and to create programs that increase spending  —   changes that can raise deficits. In the Senate, a reconciliation bill can ordinarily be passed with a simple majority. For other bills, a   majority is often needed to limit debate and move to a final vote. Q. Why is it called reconciliation? A. The term originated in the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974, which was intended to give Congress more control over the budget process by allowing lawmakers to set overall levels of spending and revenue. The process begins with a budget blueprint, a resolution that guides Congress but is not presented to the president for a signature or veto. It recommends federal revenue, deficit, debt and spending levels in areas like defense, energy, education and health care. The resolution may direct one or more committees to develop legislation to achieve specified budgetary results. By adopting these proposals, Congress can change existing laws so that actual revenue and spending are brought into line with  —   reconciled with  —   policies in the budget resolution. Q. How has reconciliation been used? A. Since 1980, Congress has completed action on 24 budget reconciliation bills. Twenty became law. Four were vetoed. The Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981 was a vehicle for much of the “Reagan revolution. ” It squeezed savings out of Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, food stamps, the school lunch program, farm subsidies, student loans, welfare and jobless benefits, among many other programs. In 1996, Congress reversed six decades of social welfare policy, eliminating the individual entitlement to cash assistance for the nation’s poorest children and giving each state a lump sum of federal money with vast discretion over its use. Those changes were made in a reconciliation bill, pushed by Republicans but signed by President Bill Clinton. Congress reduced deficits with another reconciliation bill, the Balanced Budget Act of 1997. That law also created the Children’s Health Insurance Program, primarily for uninsured children in   families. On the same day in 1997, Mr. Clinton signed a separate reconciliation bill that cut taxes. The Bush tax cuts were adopted in reconciliation bills signed by President George W. Bush in 2001 and 2003. On several occasions, Congress has increased assistance to   working families by increasing the   tax credit in reconciliation bills. Congress also made changes to the Affordable Care Act in a reconciliation bill passed immediately after President Obama signed the health care overhaul in 2010. Later, when Republicans controlled both houses of Congress, they passed a reconciliation bill to eviscerate the Affordable Care Act, but Mr. Obama vetoed the bill in January 2016. Republicans say that measure will provide a template or starting point for their efforts to undo the health care law this year, with support from   Donald J. Trump, who calls the law “an absolute disaster. ” Q. How does the reconciliation process work in the Senate? A. In the House, leaders of the majority party can usually control what happens if their members stick together. In the Senate, by contrast, one member or a handful of senators can often derail the leaders’ plans. The reconciliation process enhances the power of the majority party and its leaders. Senate debate on a reconciliation bill is normally limited to 20 hours, so it cannot be filibustered on the Senate floor. The Senate has a special rule to prevent abuse of the budget reconciliation process. The rule, named for former Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia, generally bars use of the procedure to consider legislation that has no effect on spending, taxes and deficits. The Senate parliamentarian normally decides whether particular provisions violate the Byrd rule, but the Senate can waive the rule with a   majority. Q. What does this mean for the Affordable Care Act? A. Republicans hope to use the   procedure of budget reconciliation to repeal or nullify provisions of the law that affect spending and taxes. They could, for example, eliminate penalties imposed on people who go without insurance and on larger employers who do not offer coverage to employees. They could use a reconciliation bill to eliminate tens of billions of dollars provided each year to states that have expanded eligibility for Medicaid. And they could use it to repeal subsidies for private health insurance coverage obtained through the public marketplaces known as exchanges. Republicans could also repeal a number of taxes and fees imposed on certain   people and on health insurers and manufacturers of   prescription drugs and medical devices: tax increases that help offset the cost of the insurance coverage expansions. Those provisions were all rolled back in the reconciliation bill Mr. Obama vetoed last January. That bill did not touch insurance market standards established in the Affordable Care Act, which do not directly cost the government money or raise taxes. The standards stipulate, for example, that insurers cannot deny coverage or charge higher premiums because of a person’s   conditions. Insurers must allow parents to keep children on their policies until the age of 26, and they cannot charge women higher rates than men, as they often did in the past. Such provisions are politically popular, but it is not clear how they could remain in force without the coverage expansions that help insurers afford such regulations. Without an effective requirement for people to carry insurance, and without subsidies, supporters of the health law say many healthy people would go without coverage, knowing they could obtain it if they became ill and needed it. Democrats say they will fight to preserve the law after Mr. Obama leaves office. Recent history shows that lobbying and public pressure can sometimes make a difference, altering the votes of individual lawmakers and changing the contents of a reconciliation bill."
60,17353,Ivanka Trump’s New Washington Home Once Belonged to a Putin Foe - The New York Times,New York Times,Julie Hirschfeld Davis,2017-01-23,2017.0,1.0,,"WASHINGTON  —   Ivanka Trump, who is weighing a prominent role in her father’s administration, is planning to move with her family to a mansion in the exclusive Kalorama section of Washington, two people familiar with the decision said Wednesday. The house was previously owned by a   financier with extensive investments in Russia and ties to a Russian opposition leader. Ms. Trump and her husband, Jared Kushner, a close adviser to   Donald J. Trump who is expected to be an influential voice in the administration, have chosen a      house just around the corner from President Obama’s new home. The newly renovated house, with its sleekly modern décor, sold for $5. 5 million in December, the people said, insisting on anonymity because the transaction was private. The home was previously owned by Dan K. Rapoport and his wife, Irina, according to property records filed with the District of Columbia. Neither responded to emailed requests for comment. Ms. Trump’s relocation plans, first reported by Washingtonian magazine, are the latest evidence that she and Mr. Kushner will remain major players in Mr. Trump’s administration. Both played crucial roles in his presidential bid and have wielded outsize power during his transition. People close to the couple declined to comment on their impending move, as did William F. X. Moody, a   at Washington Fine Properties, who first disclosed the deal. But in the neighborhood where they are planning to live  —     of ambassadors and prominent figures on the Washington social circuit  —   residents have been buzzing about their    neighbors. “Everybody’s atwitter about it,” said Tony Podesta, chairman of the Podesta Group, a top Washington lobbying firm. “I’ve been getting lots of emails saying, ‘Here we go again,’ ” Mr. Podesta said, alluding to the burst of local mayhem that attended the decision by Mr. Obama and his family to rent a   home in the neighborhood after they leave the White House. “It will be great to have them as neighbors,” Mr. Podesta said of Ms. Trump and Mr. Kushner, who have three children. The white house on Tracy Place where Ms. Trump and Mr. Kushner plan to live with their children is just around the corner from the Obamas’ luxurious   home on Belmont Road, which has been undergoing extensive renovations directed by the Secret Service to fortify it for their arrival. A security checkpoint is expected to be built at the intersection of Tracy and Belmont before Mr. Obama moves in, residents said. There was no sign of Ms. Trump or her husband at the house on Wednesday afternoon. But the property was a flurry of activity, as workers and painters filed in and out past television reporters staked out on the sidewalk and   speculated about their new neighbors. John Damgard, who has owned a house on the block since 1971, said his new neighbors could expect to be welcomed “with open arms,” even by the neighborhood’s Democrats. “It’s quiet, it’s private, and they’ll be graciously received,” Mr. Damgard said. The house was home for several decades to Renee Zlotnick Kraft, a Washington fur heiress and socialite, who frequently opened its doors for events and even occasionally rolled out a pink carpet to welcome the city’s dinner party set. According to the website of his investment firm, Rapoport Capital, Mr. Rapoport was born in Riga, Latvia, and has lived in the United States, France and Russia. Vladimir Ashurkov, a top aide to Aleksei A. Navalny, a leading Russian opposition leader and critic of the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, described Mr. Rapoport as a successful financier in Moscow and an investor in Soho Rooms, one of the city’s poshest nightclubs. He has also been a supporter of Mr. Navalny since 2010. He recently relocated from Washington to Kiev, Ukraine, where he manages a private equity fund, Mr. Ashurkov said. It was not clear whether Ms. Trump and Mr. Kushner bought the house from the Rapoports or would be renting it from a new owner. But after scouting locations in other exclusive neighborhoods, including nearby Georgetown, the couple settled on a home less than two miles from the White House."
61,17354,Donald Trump Nominates Wall Street Lawyer to Head S.E.C. - The New York Times,New York Times,Leslie Picker,2017-01-05,2017.0,1.0,,"The Wall Street lawyer Walter J. Clayton does not travel in political circles, nor is he well known in corporate America. He is the insider’s insider  —   a deal maker. As such, his nomination to lead the Securities and Exchange Commission is a strong signal that financial regulation in the Trump administration will emphasize helping companies raise capital in the public markets over tightening regulation. In contrast, the agency’s two chairwomen under President Obama had regulatory or enforcement backgrounds. Mr. Clayton, known as Jay, has spent nearly his entire career in corporate boardrooms. His regulatory experience stems from advising banks on dealings with the government and helping several financial institutions with their settlements related to mortgage securities. He had a   seat to the financial crisis, advising Barclays Capital in buying the assets of the bankrupt Lehman Brothers in 2008 and Bear Stearns in its fire sale to JPMorgan Chase in 2007. He has advised on mergers and initial public offerings, including the biggest ever, the $25 billion offering by Alibaba Group of China in 2013. If Mr. Clayton is confirmed, he may have to recuse himself from some matters. A similar scrutiny was applied to Mary Jo White, the agency’s current chairwoman. She had been a litigator at Debevoise  Plimpton, where her clients included JPMorgan Chase, Rupert Murdoch’s News Corporation and Kenneth D. Lewis, a former Bank of America chief executive. Still, such recusals are not unusual. Laura S. Unger, a former commissioner and acting chairwoman, said that during her tenure, she had to recuse herself from a number of matters before the commission. She said the process of deciding when to recuse oneself often took place in consultation with the commission’s ethics officer. “An ethics officer at the S. E. C. knows all of your intimate details, and the ethics officer flags for you what may be potential conflicts,” she noted. Yet Mr. Clayton’s nomination will be sure to fuel criticism that Goldman Sachs could wield too much influence in the Trump administration. Sullivan  Cromwell, where Mr. Clayton is a partner, has been Goldman’s   law firm for more than a century. Mr. Clayton advised Goldman Sachs on perhaps its most important deal, the $5 billion investment by Warren E. Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway amid the financial crisis. Mr. Clayton’s wife works as a   adviser at Goldman. The S. E. C. nomination follows the appointment of Goldman’s No. 2 executive, Gary D. Cohn, to be the top economic policy adviser to   Donald J. Trump, and the selection of a hedge fund manager who was a former Goldman trader, Steven T. Mnuchin, to be Treasury secretary. Mr. Trump’s chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, is a former Goldman banker. During the presidential campaign, Mr. Trump had repeatedly criticized Goldman Sachs as an emblem of a financial elite. Mr. Trump, who met with Mr. Clayton on Dec. 22, said in a statement that the lawyer “will ensure our financial institutions can thrive and create jobs while playing by the rules at the same time. ” Mr. Clayton is expected to face scrutiny on his confirmation as a Sullivan  Cromwell colleague, H. Rodgin Cohen, did in 2009. Mr. Cohen, the dean of Wall Street lawyers, withdrew his name from consideration for a senior Treasury role amid an outcry over his deep involvement in nearly all the bank deals struck during the financial crisis. “It’s hard to see how an attorney who spent his career helping Wall Street beat the rap will keep   Trump’s promise to stop big banks and hedge funds from ‘getting away with murder,’” Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, said. “I look forward to hearing how Mr. Clayton will protect retirees and savers from being exploited, demand real accountability from financial institutions the S. E. C. oversees and work to prevent another financial crisis. ” One issue could be Mr. Clayton’s representation of Alibaba. The Chinese   giant is under investigation by the S. E. C. over its accounting practices. Mr. Clayton also represented   Capital Management in its $1. 2 billion initial public offering a decade ago, and subsequent offerings and financing. A unit of the New   hedge fund pleaded guilty for what federal prosecutors said were more than $100 million in bribes paid to officials in African countries. The hedge fund was forced to pay a $400 million settlement. Government authorities said in September that they were still investigating individuals related to case. Another issue could be a 2011 report critical of the government’s enforcement of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which argued that “the current   regime” was “causing lasting harm to the competitiveness of U. S. regulated companies and the U. S. capital markets. ” Mr. Clayton was the chairman of the New York City bar association committee that drafted the report. Requests to speak with Mr. Clayton at Sullivan  Cromwell were not answered. A number of fellow deal lawyers said they were glad that the    practitioner could be at the helm of the S. E. C. “He’s a very smart, pragmatic guy who has real deal experience and has seen this stuff firsthand,” said Richard Truesdell, a head of Davis Polk’s global capital markets group, who has worked with Mr. Clayton on several deals. “There’s been a lot of buzz today, and I have yet to talk to anyone who isn’t pleasantly surprised by the choice. ” The role of the Securities and Exchange Commission is to protect investors and enable companies to raise capital through the public markets in a way that fosters economic growth. The latter is a key tenet of Mr. Trump’s economic plan, with the aim that companies can use the excess capital to create jobs. Harvey Pitt, a former chairman of the S. E. C. appointed by President George W. Bush, said Mr. Clayton was a “  appointment. ” “It is especially logical with respect to the agency’s obligation to promote capital formation, a subject with which the incoming administration is appropriately concerned,” said Mr. Pitt in an email. “Mr. Clayton’s background is very impressive  —   both for the depth of his experience, and for the quality of his efforts. ” Mr. Clayton went to the University of Pennsylvania and the University of Cambridge for separate bachelor’s degrees and then obtained his law degree from the University of Pennsylvania Law School. Mr. Clayton donated to Mitt Romney and Mr. Obama in previous presidential elections and to Jeb Bush’s primary campaign in 2015, according to public records. Those who know Mr. Clayton describe him as the     type, a doer who is often in the shadows of the better known Mr. Cohen at Sullivan  Cromwell. “When I think about the position, the guy has a really deep understanding of the capital markets and financial regulatory matters, so he checks those boxes,” said Brad Whitman, vice chairman in mergers and acquisitions at Morgan Stanley, who has worked with Mr. Clayton over many years. “He’s got a great appreciation for what drives business and growth. ”"
64,17358,A New Casualty of Syria’s War: Drinking Water in Damascus - The New York Times,New York Times,Ben Hubbard,2017-01-05,2017.0,1.0,,"BEIRUT, Lebanon  —   For millions of Damascus residents,   concerns about the direction of the war in Syria have been replaced by worries about where to get enough water to do the dishes, wash clothes or take a shower. For nearly two weeks, the Syrian capital and its vicinity have been afflicted by a water crisis that has left taps dry, caused long lines at wells and forced people to stretch whatever thin resources they can find. “When the world gets hard for us, we work something out,” said a woman in a video posted on Facebook showing how she used a   cola bottle to wash teacups. “When you cut off the water, we dig for water. When you cut off the tap, we make a tap. ” Like most of Syria’s problems, the Damascus water crisis is a symptom of the war, which has killed hundreds of thousands of people, displaced about half the country’s prewar population of 22 million and left its territory divided into zones controlled by the government, armed rebels and jihadist groups. While a   brokered by Russia and Turkey and announced last week has reduced overall violence across the country, it has not stopped the fighting everywhere, nor has it resolved what happens when resources needed by one side are controlled by its enemies, as appears to be the case with Damascus’s water. Historically, most of the water for the capital, which is controlled by the government of President Bashar   has come from the Barada Valley north of the city, which is controlled by rebels who want to oust Mr. Assad. The crisis began on Dec. 22, when the water stopped flowing. Each side has accused the other of damaging infrastructure near the spring, halting the flow. Antigovernment activists have posted photos online, purporting to show structures around the spring that they say were damaged by exploding barrels dropped from government helicopters. The government first accused the rebels of polluting the water, then of damaging the infrastructure. Jens Laerke, a spokesman for the United Nations humanitarian office in Geneva, said by email Tuesday that the “deliberate targeting of the water infrastructure” had caused the  . “But we are not in a position to say by whom,” he said. “The area has been the scene of much fighting, so we have not been able to access it. ” Now, 5. 5 million people in Damascus and the vicinity lack water, which has raised the risk of waterborne disease, especially among children, he said. Fighting near the Barada Valley has continued despite the  . Antigovernment activists say that government forces, and fighters from Lebanon’s Hezbollah organization, have continued to attack the area in an apparent attempt to take it over. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which tracks the conflict from Britain through a network of contacts in Syria, said the government launched 15 airstrikes on the area Monday amid clashes between rebels and   forces. Turkey’s foreign minister, Mevlut Cavusoglu, accused the Syrian government and its allies on Wednesday of violating the   saying that the new violence could derail peace talks meant to be held in Astana, the capital of Kazakhstan, on Jan. 23. Rebel groups have threatened to boycott the talks if government attacks do not stop. Few Damascus residents expect much from the talks or have time to think about them. While generally safe from the violence that had reduced other parts of the country to rubble, they were struggling through a cold winter of high prices and scarce commodities before the water crisis, making things worse. The Syrian government has sought to ease the crisis by trucking water from wells around the city, and the United Nations has rehabilitated 120 wells to cover about   of the city’s daily needs, Mr. Laerke, the spokesman, said. But many residents said they had received nothing. Some were buying water from men with private tankers, while others took advantage of whatever they could get. A    shopkeeper said he had not had a shower in 10 days but that he and his sons went to the mosque every day to wash their hands, feet and faces, an option not available to the women of the house. At home, he said, they used plastic utensils because they could not wash dishes. One    woman said she had not had running water in her home for 10 days. Her two sons have spent hours each day lining up to fill jugs from the well at their mosque. They use that to drink and to wash dishes, collecting the runoff to flush the toilet. “My family’s dream is to get a warm shower,” she said, speaking on condition of anonymity for fear of repercussions for communicating with a foreign news outlet without government permission. “It has become our ultimate hope in Damascus to have enough water to take showers and wash clothes in the automatic washing machine. ” She expressed anger that Syria’s   news media had said little about the water crisis, instead focusing on the military’s battles with rebels. “We are fed up with the news of military operations,” she said. “We want news about water and water supply schedules. ” Despite the water crisis, conditions in Damascus are far better than those in Aleppo, the northern city and former commercial epicenter of the country, where Syrian and Russian forces prevailed last month after prolonged bombardments of its eastern side. While the   appears to be holding there, the formerly   eastern quarters are abandoned wastelands, United Nations relief officials said. “Nothing prepared us for what we saw,” Sajjad Malik, the United Nations acting humanitarian coordinator for Syria, told reporters Wednesday in a telephone briefing from Aleppo. “The infrastructure was destroyed in almost every neighborhood. ” Mr. Malik said more than 100 United Nations relief workers from several agencies were helping civil defense teams remove debris and provide emergency food, water, shelter and medical care in the city, where four million people once lived. He estimated that 1. 5 million people remain in Aleppo, mostly on the western side, including roughly 400, 000 Syrians displaced from other areas. He also said thousands of displaced residents from the eastern side were starting to return, even if their homes and businesses were badly damaged or destroyed. “They’re beginning to talk about rebuilding their lives and livelihoods,” Mr. Malik said. But he cautioned that “Aleppo’s reconstruction is going to take a much longer time and way more resources than we have right now. ”"
65,17360,My Canada - The New York Times,New York Times,,2017-01-11,2017.0,1.0,,"Canada, our No. 1 pick for this year’s 52 Places to Go list, spans millions of square miles. It also contains multitudes, not just of people and locations, but of memories. We asked five Canadian authors to reflect on places that have lodged in their psyches. My mother always kept a bright yellow hard hat in her car, an unexpected accessory for a petite Hong Kong immigrant in her  . She was the senior purchaser for a British Columbia forestry company that, in lean years, laid off everyone in her department except her. (More’s the pity she dreamed of early retirement.) In the meantime, she shuttled between the province’s pulp and paper mills, doing the job of six people, negotiating contracts for hotels, log loaders, harvesters and more. One year, when I was 25, I finally said yes to her persistent invitations to tag along. She wanted me to meet the men and women who earned their living in the mill towns, and who called her by her English name, Matilda. We set out in her car, exploring the    of Vancouver Island, heading for the northern tip, Port Hardy. This would turn out to be the last trip we took together. I remember the wet October chill eagles descending over corridors of evergreens a seemingly endless highway. At twilight, the world took on the shifting depths of an Emily Carr painting. I had to put up with my mother’s terrible driving, and her devotion to Celine Dion. She had to put up with my moods. I was going through a breakup and had decided that, in order to strengthen my moral fiber, I should camp, alone, for three days in the woods. I instructed my mother to drop me off at my campsite, work for a few days in Port Hardy, and then pick me up again. Port Hardy is a microcosm of Canada: a   town with a complex human and environmental history. The archaeological site of the island’s oldest known human habitation (circa 5850 B. C.) the area is the place of origin for the Kwakiutl peoples. The land of the Kwakiutl, whose name translates to “smoke of the world,” was taken into ownership  —   both private and national  —   by gunpoint, dishonored treaties and restrictive and discriminatory laws. The scramble for artifacts and the theft of Kwakiutl art  —   work that was celebrated by Claude   as among the most sophisticated in the world  —   has meant that much of the community’s historical work is housed in museums elsewhere. After 1849, the Kwakiutl population was decimated, but it survives. In 2013, British Columbia was found to have once again breached the Kwakiutl’s 1851 Treaty rights. This is not a history I learned in school. Alone in the woods, I pitched my tent. The dark fell suddenly. I made it five hours before calling my mom, telling her I was afraid, and asking her to come get me. That night, we shared a bed in a small lodging provided by her company. I smelled of the fire I had briefly managed to start. It felt good to lie beside my mother in a place that was complex and old. A little over a year later, my mother died suddenly in a town where she was working, much like this one, on a November night when her heart gave out. It was her   two kind forestry men who, worried about my mother, entered her hotel room in the morning, to find her gone. So peaceful, they told us, as if she were only sleeping. Fourteen years later, I understand better how the smoke of the world is never still. Many of the mills my mother visited have closed, jobs have been lost, and, as of a decade ago, a staggering 75 percent of Vancouver Island’s productive   forest has been logged. It is a place that will tell us much about the balance between jobs and environmental stewardship, about our respect for First Nations treaty rights and our obligations to the land. This is the Canada still to come. Madeleine Thien is the author of “Do Not Say We Have Nothing. ” Grindstone Island is a   dot of green leaves and Victorian gingerbread structures in the middle of Big Rideau Lake, halfway between Kingston and Ottawa.   in the 19th century to make way for its eponymous grindstone quarry, the island later became the summer home of Charles Kingsmill, the first admiral of the Royal Canadian Navy, and served as a genteel hub for Ottawa society life. Kingsmill’s daughter, Diana, who had a lifelong association with pacifist Quakers, took over Grindstone and turned it into a nonviolent resistance education center, staging legendary   games that recreated the infamous Stanford Prison Experiment as a way to train the “prisoners” to fight oppression with noncooperation  —   a practice that ended after a disastrous fake “invasion” by a local biker gang retained for the purpose. I came to Grindstone as a young teenager in the   attending the annual summer camps run by the nonprofit cooperative the Quakers put together to manage the island. The camps’ explicit mission was to train a new generation of activists, another step on the ladder that they had climbed, through trade unionism, farmers’ unions, suffragism and feminism, to antiwar activism. Grindstone was full of kids like me:   babies who attended alternative public schools in Toronto, Kingston and Ottawa, who could rhyme the classic protest chant “   ” with the facility of lifelong practice. Today it sounds hopelessly idealistic. But in the ’80s, Grindstone was a perfect incubator for young activists. With its quiet paths, crisp lake swimming and isolated spots with names like Moonwatcher’s Point, the Grindstone experience was one part lazing around and chatting, one part intense, practical instruction. The Victorian cottages we slept in had once housed the political elites of Ottawa society and their celebrity friends. Now they were ours. I’ve always been an early riser, and it was on Grindstone that I became addicted to sunrises, swimming around the island to catch them on the still lake amid the loon calls, then rushing in a shiver back to my cabin to change for breakfast and morning meeting on the broad, shaded porch of the main lodge. As I graduated out of the summer camps, I became active in the maintenance and management of the island, volunteering in the kitchens and serving on the  ’s board. When the  ’s finances crashed with the   recession, we sold the island to a dentist from Kingston who planned to commute by small pontoon plane. I was devastated. Today, Grindstone is the private home of David Bearman and Jennifer Trant  —   museum technology pioneers who fell in love with the island the first time they saw it, immediately dissolved their successful consultancy and took up residence there, running small conferences for people interested in museums and the web. Five years ago my family and I were their guests. The island felt haunted by the ghosts of the friends I’d made there and the dreams we’d shared. It has been 25 years since I left Grindstone on its final weekend as a social justice education center, and not a week goes by without my yearning for it with a kind of joy and sorrow that is sunk very deep in my heart. I visit it in my dreams, and in the photo feeds from its current owners when I see them at museum conferences, I demand to know all the minutiae of the island’s upkeep, which trees survived the winter storms and what color they’re painting the porch this year. I live in Burbank, Calif. now, and I take my    daughter on hikes in the nearby mountains. Sometimes, when we sit on a trailside boulder and listen to the winds soughing in the trees, I can almost pretend that I’ve brought her back to Grindstone, the place I had always assumed I would raise my own family. Cory Doctorow is the author of the forthcoming novel “Walkaway” and a special adviser to the Electronic Frontier Foundation. The Hawker Siddeley HS 748 is a delightful,   turboprop relic of an airplane, with metal everywhere you expect plastic, made to land on gravel or ice. Nestled in a Hawker, I flew north from Whitehorse, Yukon’s capital city, past 300 miles of moonscape  —   gray craters scarred by the white lines of mining roads that seemed to loop and go nowhere  —   before Dawson City appeared through a hole in the cloud cover. The subarctic town, nicknamed “Paris of the North” during the late   Gold Rush, looked like a strange, solitary incursion on the land. I was there to spend three months living in the childhood home of the Canadian writer Pierre Berton, who had donated the house for this purpose. A volunteer picked me up at the   airport. On the drive through town, we passed a truck with an animal carcass in the bed, antlers poking out past a tarp.   black birds pecked at the exposed edges. “If you leave your moose out, the ravens will get at it,” the volunteer said. The Yukon River divided the town into Dawson proper and West Dawson, a scattered community of   cabins whose inhabitants hauled their own wood, water and propane. I walked down to the river almost every day. It was October, and the black, bottomless water flowed fast toward Alaska. Over the next few weeks, the river changed. First the water took on the faint sheen of an oil slick. Then slivers of ice began to race along the current, catching the light like the heads and bellies of surfacing seals. Then bigger,   chunks of ice formed, audibly colliding and jostling for space until they clustered and   at a bottleneck bend. Finally, one morning in November, I woke to an eerie, noticeable silence. I went down to the river’s beach sheets of ice overlapped where they’d heaved onto the shore, their exposed   resembling massive blocks of turquoise glass. A government employee had drilled into the ice and laid out orange flags indicating where the ice was thick enough to walk safely. I watched a dogsled cross. Because of the snow cover, it wasn’t immediately clear where the ground ended and the river began. As I stepped out, I could hear ice continuing to crack, the sound of trickling water running in open rivulets. Under my feet, I’d been told, ran water deep enough to swallow a truck. This would be a stupid way to die, I thought. Halfway across, I stopped and looked south, toward where the Yukon River met the Klondike River. At this time of year, the sun rose so late and set so early that it circled the horizon in a continuous blaze of orange. Part of the Canadian identity is that we’re a hardy people, thriving in the inhospitable north. It’s one of those myths so ingrained and pervasive that you believe it even if, like me  —   like most  —   you have lived your whole life in cities less than 60 miles north of the American border. For just a moment, my breath clouding around me, icicles forming on my chin, I stood in that mythical Canada. I crossed and hiked triumphantly around West Dawson, which had been inaccessible except by helicopter during the  . The temperature dropped below   degrees Celsius. When I returned to the house, hours later, I peeled off my jeans and saw that my thighs, like my cheeks and nose, were a raw, violent red. Out on the river, I had seen two other people crossing. The first glided past on   skis with a baby strapped to his chest. The second was an acquaintance pulling a sled. “Just picking up my mail!” he called. Kim Fu is the author of the novel “For Today I Am a Boy” and the poetry collection “How Festive the Ambulance. ”  Hans Johann was a capitalist pig farmer, a man who owned the pigs and the farm. His wife was Barbara. They were both German Mennonites. After World War II, both had fled with their families from what was once Prussia to Niagara, which is where, on some acres between the lake and the waterfalls, they stayed and became Mama and Papa, then Oma and Opa. My mother, Linda, was the fourth of Oma and Opa’s seven children, born and christened at such a rate that the family could not afford middle names. Mama made up for this by calling me “Sarah Nicole,” while my father, one of four from the suburbs, has never said anything but “Sarah. ” At home in London, Ontario, I sided with my dad, thinking two names were less smart than one but when we went to the pig farm, my name was turned by thick German tongues into “   . ” This older, extrinsic version of me was the one I liked best. Summers belonged to Niagara. Driving to the farm in a station wagon with no empty seats, we knew we were close when the asphalt turned to dirt and had arrived when the dirt turned to gravel. A long lane,   in birches, led to an ancient Mercedes or two and a big John Deere tractor, a nameless cat curled under the exhaust pipe. In the kitchen, we ate Oma’s bread with havarti cheese and   summer grapes, on which a skim of dust belied a   of gold. What did we need money for? Nothing. Ice cream, maybe, if we wanted it in a cone from Avondale Dairy. Turtles swam with us in the pool, the water cold and unchlorinated under scum, colored the dim vegetative green of fairy tales before they’re Americanized. Oma said her ferns would grow better if we urinated in the soil, and we rolled our eyes but did it, one at a time. I sneaked away to the gully, read my aunt’s ahistorical romance novels. My brother shot a dove with a BB gun. Pigs screamed in the barn. It seemed in those summers impossible that the sun could either burn me or fail to wake me up, that I could ever be sick for more than three days or have an allergy. I was no more friends with nature than I was friends with my kin, yet it seemed that nature and I felt the same way: indifferent to the rules, remote no matter how we were tamed. My grandfather is alive, freshly widowed. Though he no longer capitalizes on much or practices animal husbandry, he lives in the bungalow on the farm and makes and sells peach and grape jam. Everyone thinks they know what peach and grape jam taste like, but I maintain that Opa’s jam can make you forget what a fruit is. Sarah Nicole Prickett is a writer in New York and the founder of Adult Magazine.  A few years ago, I got to pick a small village to stay in for a while and write poetry. I chose the Missisquoi Valley, in the Eastern Townships of Quebec, because I liked what the bay’s First Nations name meant: many aquatic birds. Indeed, I saw birds everywhere: in my dreams, above my head, through the windows. I saw the wind, too, moving across the cornfields. The region also brought me back to my love of New England. When choosing the town I was to stay in, I’d randomly pointed at a little village called Mystic. It was an enticing name. I’d also found a sister city in the United States with the same name, which had a museum with a room dedicated to Herman Melville. When I write, I always let myself be led by coincidence. I quickly started inventing connections between Melville and the Québécois Mystic between me scribbling notes in a rented Cavalier and the trailblazers of real and fictional territory that were the great American writers of the 19th century. I also imagined stories of the devil whirling around in the town’s   barn, and created my own private numerology. I would look for covered bridges on the road, round barns built by utopian Quakers and Victorian houses. I thought about loyalists fleeing north after the Revolutionary War, about Irish Catholics fleeing famine, about all the immigrants who left their mark along the path. I knew that by venturing further, to the shores of the great Lake Memphremagog, I would also think about the Vietnam War deserters who’d found refuge there. I thought about the First Nation Abenakis, how they named the lakes and rivers, and about our ignorance. I began my stay at Pike River, but I understood that this road was one where each stop would lead to another. I walked into the office of tourism in Stanbridge Station, my next stop, and asked a petite historian a thousand questions. She showed me Chemin St.  on the map, which she called the second prettiest road in Quebec. (I never learned where the first was.) I didn’t stay in Mystic. As soon as I caught sight of the old cemetery in Hunter Mills, I became fascinated by the border zone between Quebec and the United States. It represented the state I was in myself: a wandering state of mind, looking for ghosts, mine and others’ looking for my words, my promised land, my house built stone by stone throughout my life. And that is how, having been asked to stay in a small village, I found myself gathering the rosary beads of hamlets strung along the border area. I’m still enamored with the scenery I found there: isolated villages in the shadow of the mountains, whose grandeur lorded over long lakes and rivers farms and cornfields a Mercedes up on four blocks amid the junk strewn in front of an abandoned house old   cemeteries that pop up at every turn leafy trees of maple, walnut, beech, oak, birch a few wayside crosses old churches and train stations and checkpoints and in the morning, at the inn by the river, a little black cat sitting on a tree branch listening to the sound of the falls and the purring coffeepot. Élise Turcotte, a poet and novelist, is the author of “The Sound of Living Things” and “Guyana. ” Translated by Allison M. Charette. En français: Il y a quelques années, on m’a demandé de séjourner dans un petit village de mon choix afin d’y écrire des poèmes. J’ai choisi la vallée de la Missisquoi dans les cantons de l’est en Québec, parce que j’aimais la signification du nom donné par les Premières Nations à la baie: beaucoup d’oiseaux aquatiques. Déjà, je voyais des oiseaux partout, dans mes rêves, autour de ma tête, derrière les fenêtres. Je voyais aussi le vent bouger à travers les champs de maïs. Cette région me ramenait aussi à mon amour de la  . Afin de choisir le village de mon séjour, j’avais pointé mon doigt sur un petit village appelé Mystic. Ce nom m’attirait. J’avais aussi découvert une ville homonyme aux   où il y avait, dans un musée, une salle dédiée à Melville. Je me laisse toujours guider par les coïncidences pour écrire. J’inventais d’ores et déjà des liens entre Melville et le Mystic québécois entre moi prenant des notes dans une Cavalier louée, et ces défricheurs de territoires réels et fictifs que sont les grands écrivains américains du 19e siècle. J’imaginais aussi des histoires de diable tournant en rond dans la Grange à douze côtés, et créais une numérologie intime à moi. Je chercherais les ponts couverts sur la route, les granges rondes construites par des quakers utopiques, les maisons à façade victorienne je pensais à la fuite des loyalistes vers le nord, aux Irlandais catholiques fuyant la famine, à tous ces immigrants ayant laissé leurs traces sur le chemin. Je savais qu’en m’aventurant plus loin, aux abords du grand lac Memphrémagog, je penserais aussi aux déserteurs de la guerre du Vietnam. Je pensais aux Abénaquis des Premières Nations, qui ont donné les noms aux lacs et aux rivières, à notre ignorance. À   là où mon séjour commençait, j’ai compris cependant que j’étais sur une route où chaque arrêt menait à un autre. Je suis entrée dans le bureau du tourisme, j’ai posé mille questions à une petite historienne de Stanbridge Station. Elle m’a indiqué sur la carte où se trouve Chemin   la deuxième plus belle route du Québec. (Je n’ai pas jamais appris où se situe la première). Et je ne suis pas restée à Mystic: dès que j’ai aperçu le vieux cimetière de Hunter Mills, c’est la zone frontalière entre le Québec et les   qui m’a fascinée. Elle était l’illustration de l’état dans lequel je me trouvais, dans l’esprit de l’errance, à la recherche de fantômes, les miens, ceux des autres à la recherche de mes mots, ma terre promise, ma maison construite pierre après pierre tout au long de ma vie. Et c’est ainsi qu’appelée à séjourner dans un petit village, je me suis retrouvée à ramasser les grains d’un chapelet de hameaux dispersés sur le chemin de la frontière. Le décor que j’y ai trouvé m’enchante toujours: villages enclavés dans l’ombre des montagnes, dont le grandeur veillaient sur les lacs longs et les rivières fermes et champs de maïs une Mercedes sur quatre blocs à travers le débarras devant une maison à l’abandon de vieux cimetières   qui surprennent à chaque détour des arbres feuillus, érables, noyers, êtres, chênes, bouleaux quelques croix de chemin d’anciennes gares et églises, de vieux postes de frontière et le matin, à l’auberge, un petit chat noir perché sur une branche d’arbre écoutant le bruit des chutes et de la cafetière qui ronronne."
66,17361,How We Put Together Our 52 Places to Go List - The New York Times,New York Times,,2017-01-15,2017.0,1.0,,"For the 12th straight year, the Travel section presents its annual Places to Go issue. You will likely have some questions: How did the No. 1 spot get there? Why is my favorite spot not on the list? What’s the deal with those 360 videos online at nytimes. ? Here are some frequently asked questions about how we chose our 52 Places to Go in 2017.  What made Canada the top choice? And why would you choose a country?  Canada has it all (O. K. maybe not tropical beaches). It’s a world unto itself, with Vancouver Island surf breaks, culinary delights in Toronto and Montreal, and natural glories of parks like Banff in Alberta. And, let’s face it, clichés of Mounties and hockey aside, Canada remains a terra incognita for Americans and much of the world. It’s a great time to correct that, as the country celebrates its 150th anniversary this year (which means free admission all year to those national parks) and currently offers a generous exchange rate with the United States dollar. What is special about the list online? And in print? Look at the interactive version of the list on a computer or mobile device and you’ll notice a bunch of 360 videos that allow you to explore some of these places in a newly immersive way. “Travel is a great match for 360 videos because the medium provides a vivid sense of place,” said Maureen Towey, the senior producer for 360 News at The New York Times. “We ask our shooters to be adventurous in their camera placement. When they ask if they can rig the camera to a motorcycle, a   balloon or a ski lift, we say yes every time. ” On a computer, you’ll also notice a stunning drone video, shot in Tofino, on the western coast of Vancouver Island. “After many wet days, there was one morning the clouds broke and the waves were a bit better,” said Josh Haner, a staff photographer who shot the footage. “As my drone’s batteries were running out, I looked to the right and a beautiful rainbow filled the beach. It was a spectacular 45 minutes. ” And print readers will notice something new as well: a special   presentation of the list that can be removed from the section and pored over (or hung on the wall). How do you start the process? We ask our regular contributors, many of whom live overseas or roam the globe, for ideas. We get hundreds of them. What are you looking for in those ideas? First, why now? That is, why is this the year to go to a particular place? We also aim for a geographic and thematic diversity. And we look for a mix of destinations both   and off the beaten path. (That means we often exclude the very obvious spots even though cities like London, Berlin and Tokyo are always exciting, they didn’t make this year’s list.) How do you narrow it down to the final list? A   meeting, in which we discuss each idea. We get pretty punchy toward the end but are always happy with the final list. My favorite destination didn’t make the list. Why not? The 52 places we select are, of course, just the start. There are thousands of wonderful destinations to consider. We’d love to hear your suggestions  —   use the #52Places2017 hashtag on Instagram to suggest yours."
67,17362,Places to Put Your Hands Together - The New York Times,New York Times,Shivani Vora,2017-01-07,2017.0,1.0,,"Whether the music to your ears is pop, classical, jazz, country or another type of tune altogether, the rhythms of 2017 have you covered. Dance the days and nights away at Summerfest, June 28 to July 9 in Milwaukee, an   bonanza that includes 800 acts spread out across 11 stages at Henry Maier Festival Park on Lake Michigan. The Red Hot Chili Peppers and Pink are among the headline performers this year, the festival’s 50th, but other genres such as   classic rock, Latin and reggae are also represented. The Monterey International Pop Festival, June 16 to 18 in Monterey, Calif. is also turning 50 this year, and celebrating in style, on the same weekend and at the same location  —   the Monterey County Fair and Events Center  —   where the original festival was held in 1967. That event helped establish the careers of many legendary musicians, including Jimi Hendrix, the Who and the Grateful Dead, and this year, over the course of three days, nine bands will take the stage to pay tribute to them. In Monte Carlo, it’s all jazz all the time at the 12th annual   Jazz Festival (November and December, exact dates to be determined) featuring performances by the world’s top jazz players such as Manu Katché, the drummer and singer, the bassist Richard Bona, and Ibrahim Maalouf, the trumpet player, all of whom were guests in 2016. The heart of the action takes place at the Opéra Garnier   an ornate   building, but the shows spill over into the Casino de   and glitzy oceanfront bars. Mellower sounds are in store on the Caribbean island of Mustique from Jan. 18 to Feb. 1, at the Mustique Blues Festival, a   secret among discerning fans. The event unfolds over nearly two weeks at the beachside Basil’s Bar, where spectators can sip sundowners while listening to the music of renowned blues players from around the world, including the San   guitarist and singer Joe Louis Walker. Festivalgoers should be on the lookout for other attendees, both famous and not, giving impromptu shows Mick Jagger and Michael Kors have jumped on stage in past years to belt out the blues before a stunned crowd. On the classical music scene, a prestigious orchestra celebrates a big birthday while another is born. In Austria, the Vienna Philharmonic is marking its 175th anniversary with more than 100 concerts throughout the year, including the free and   Summer Night Concert Schönbrunn on May 25, in the Baroque gardens of Vienna’s Schönbrunn Palace, and four opera productions at the Salzburg Festival in Salzburg from July 21 to Aug. 30, most notably “Aida,” in which the Russian superstar soprano Anna Netrebko will sing the title role. And in Germany, Hamburg anticipates a January opening for the Elbphilharmonie, a striking new building set atop a former warehouse, with a glass facade, a scalloped roofline and two concert halls. Festivities at the new cultural landmark will unfold all year, like the ¡Viva Beethoven! series, March 19 to 23, when the highly regarded Venezuelan conductor Gustavo Dudamel will conduct. In Montreal, traditional opera takes on a contemporary edge with “Another Brick in the Wall,” on select dates from March 11 to 24 the production honors the city’s 375th anniversary and is based on Pink Floyd’s 1979 album “The Wall. The band’s chief songwriter, Roger Waters, collaborated with Opéra de Montréal on the work, which is inspired by his life. There are stories of isolation and the destruction of love, and it promises to be   and emotional, just the way a captivating opera should be."
69,17364,5 Must-See Shows if You’re in New York This Month - The New York Times,New York Times,Charles Isherwood,2017-01-25,2017.0,1.0,,"Broadway shows often fold their tents at the end of the year, fearing the winter blues at the box office. But this year a few shows of note are holding on, at least for a week or two. You’ve got a few more days to catch Stephen Karam’s gorgeous “The Humans,” last season’s Tony winner for best play (ending on Jan. 15) and even fewer to jump on the exhilarating emotional roller coaster that is the sublime revival of the musical “Falsettos” (ending on Sunday). Looking further ahead, here are other notable shows and events I’d put at the top of my    list. The first of the majestic   cycle of plays written by the great August Wilson, this drama set in the 1970s (and written in 1979) was, until now, the only piece of the cycle not to be produced on Broadway. A classic Wilson ensemble drama, about a group of gypsy cab drivers in the Hill District of Pittsburgh, the new Manhattan Theater Club production is directed by Ruben   who has both appeared in and directed Wilson’s plays  —   notably the superb recent revival of “The Piano Lesson” from the Signature Theater. (In previews for a Jan. 19 opening at the Samuel J. Friedman Theater.) Normally I frown on theater as a rarefied form of stargazing. But with a star as luminous as Cate Blanchett, I will grant an exception. And, of course, Ms. Blanchett, who graces this new adaptation of “Platonov,” an early Chekhov play, is not merely a movie star burnishing her reputation with a Broadway debut. During the past decade she has made regular, acclaimed appearances on the New York stage, in productions imported from the Sydney Theater Company (as is this one). An unwieldy drama about the familiar Chekhovian concerns  —   lives full of regret, stomachs bloated with vodka  —   the play has been moved from Russia in the 19th century to Russia in the late 20th century for this version by Andrew Upton, Ms. Blanchett’s husband. The esteemed Australian actor Richard Roxburgh is Platonov. (In previews for a Sunday opening at the Barrymore Theater.) I have been saving this lovable classic as a cure for the   blues. The small but enterprising Irish Rep first produced this delicious musical whimsy, with a glorious, multihued score by Burton Lane and E. Y. Harburg, a dozen years ago, with Melissa Errico as the ingénue, Sharon (she who wonders “How Are Things in Glocca Morra? ”). The seemingly ageless Ms. Errico, I am delighted to report, is unfurling her silvery soprano once again in this revival, directed by the company’s artistic director, Charlotte Moore. (Through Jan. 29 at the Irish Repertory Theater.) [Read the review] This is not a single show (as downtown theatergoers will, of course, know) but a whole feast of international theater, presented by the Public Theater at its home base and elsewhere. Along with P. S. 122’s Coil and other festivals, it has come to make January a dizzying smorgasbord of experimental theater. Highlights this year include a new production from one of my favorite companies, the imaginative 600 Highwaymen, presenting “The Fever,” which is said to be “performed in complete collaboration with the audience. ” Bring your tap shoes  —   or at least a willingness to blast your way through the fourth wall on a regular basis. (Various locations,  .) Martin McDonagh’s     was the first of his trilogy of plays set in the impoverished Irish village of the title. It returns in a   production from the Druid Theater, the company that first made a splash internationally with a pungent production that ultimately moved to Broadway. Once again the company’s longtime chief, Garry Hynes, directs. And Marie Mullen, who won a Tony Award as the embittered daughter of a manipulative terror of a mother, with the aptly monstrous name Mag, now takes on that formidable role. (Begins performances at the Brooklyn Academy of Music on Jan. 11.)"
70,17365,Remaking Kennedy Airport Is Governor’s Next Big Plan - The New York Times,New York Times,Patrick McGeehan,2017-01-05,2017.0,1.0,,"Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York said on Wednesday that with a complete overhaul of La Guardia Airport underway, he wants to rebuild New York City’s other airport, John F. Kennedy International. Mr. Cuomo outlined a plan to spend more than $10 billion modernizing Kennedy’s terminals and improving the highway and transit systems connected to the airport. He did not provide a timetable for the plan or say specifically where all of the money would come from. “The next step is to tackle J. F. K. because La Guardia isn’t enough,” Mr. Cuomo said, speaking at a meeting of the Association for a Better New York, a business group, in Manhattan. “We need to build a new airport at J. F. K. and go through the same process as we did with La Guardia. ” In promoting big infrastructure projects, including the Second Avenue subway, which opened Sunday, Mr. Cuomo is building his legacy in New York, and perhaps raising his national profile. The plans offered by Mr. Cuomo on Wednesday suggest that he does not intend to stop trying to impose his will on the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which operates La Guardia and J. F. K. The authority’s commissioners are scheduled to meet on Thursday to vote on a $30 billion   spending plan that includes only about $1 billion for improvements at J. F. K. When Mr. Cuomo formed an advisory group in 2015 to study how to improve J. F. K. he said the panel would make recommendations to the authority. But the authority’s chairman, John J. Degnan, did not see the panel’s final report until Tuesday. “We await an opportunity to review the details of the governor’s proposal,” Mr. Degnan said on Wednesday. “We will have to evaluate it against other compelling capital needs identified by the Port Authority, both within other airports and within other operations that we oversee. ” Mr. Degnan, an appointee of Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, a Republican, has been at odds with Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, over the authority’s spending priorities. The agency also operates the main commuter bus terminal in Manhattan and Newark Liberty International Airport. Mr. Cuomo pushed for $2. 5 billion in the capital plan for improvements at the New York airports, possibly including an AirTrain link from New York City’s subway system to La Guardia. Mr. Cuomo’s advisory panel suggested that most of the rest of the money  —   up to $7 billion  —   could come from private sources, including airlines that use J. F. K. Kennedy is a collection of   terminals, some of which were built, at least in part, by the airlines that occupy them. JetBlue Airways and the authority split the cost of building Terminal 5, which opened in 2008. Delta Air Lines has spent more than $1 billion in the recent years to improve its facilities at Terminals 2 and 4. At La Guardia, the authority has committed $600 million to the rebuilding of Terminals C and D against an estimated cost of about $4 billion. That investment would come on top of a $4 billion rebuilding of the Central Terminal Building there, which began last year. Mr. Cuomo hopes to entice airlines to make similar investments at J. F. K. to compete for customers. He challenged airlines to make offers, saying Delta had called him at 5:45 a. m. on Wednesday. Mr. Cuomo did not mention seeking federal financing.   Donald J. Trump has said he plans to make an ambitious investment in infrastructure a priority of his administration. As part of Mr. Cuomo’s plan for J. F. K. Matthew Driscoll, New York State’s transportation commissioner, said his agency would spend as much as $2 billion to improve the flow of traffic to and from the airport. The changes would include adding a lane to the Van Wyck Expressway and widening ramps at the busy interchange in Kew Gardens, Queens, which Mr. Driscoll said handles 250, 000 vehicles per day. Thomas F. Prendergast, chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, said that transit agencies would explore creating a   ride between Manhattan and J. F. K. Travelers must now switch to the AirTrain from the subway or Long Island Rail Road, a transfer that Mr. Prendergast described as “schlepping with your luggage. ” Though New York City owns the land under J. F. K. no one from City Hall attended Mr. Cuomo’s speech. “Investments in New York City’s airports are vitally important to our region’s   development,” said Melissa Grace, a spokeswoman for Mayor Bill de Blasio. “We look forward to hearing more details about the plans for J. F. K. in the months to come. ”"
71,17366,Cyberwar for Sale - The New York Times,New York Times,Mattathias Schwartz,2017-01-22,2017.0,1.0,,"On the morning of May 18, 2014, Violeta Lagunes was perplexed by a series of strange messages that appeared in her Gmail inbox. It was Election Day to choose the leadership of Mexico’s   Partido Acción Nacional, or PAN, and Lagunes, a former federal congresswoman, was holding a strategy meeting in her office in Puebla city. The emails seemed harmless, at least at first. One appeared to come from the account of a trusted colleague. It asked her to download and review a document. Lagunes clicked on the link, but it seemed to be broken, so she wrote back to her colleague and asked him to send it again. Elsewhere in her inbox was an email from Google warning her that someone had tried to log in to her account. Meanwhile, she began to receive phone calls from PAN allies, who claimed that they had received emails from Lagunes’s account that she did not remember sending. Now Lagunes was worried. Around 1 o’clock, she called the colleague who appeared to have emailed her. She reached him at a restaurant, where he was finishing lunch with other campaign allies. “I did not send you an email,” he insisted. A consultant with the campaign  —   who asked to remain anonymous in order to preserve his relationships with other candidates  —   overheard the conversation. He knew of other campaign workers who had been receiving similar messages: emails with vague subject lines, asking the recipient to review a document or click a link. The campaign, he realized, had been hacked. In the vote for party leader, Lagunes and her allies in Puebla  —   a   drive southeast from Mexico City  —   were supporting the challenger, a senator who promised to return the party to its conservative roots. But the incumbent was backed by Puebla’s powerful governor, Rafael Moreno Valle. One of Mexico’s rising political stars, Moreno Valle is close to Mexico’s president, Enrique Peña Nieto, and has forged an alliance between PAN and Nieto’s centrist Partido Revolucionario Institucional, or PRI, long the dominant force in Mexican politics. Since winning the governorship in 2010, Moreno Valle’s opponents say, his ambitions have grown, and he has resorted to increasingly harsh measures to keep Puebla state  —   including members of his own party  —   under control. “In the beginning, the governor was   and respectful,” Rafael Micalco, a former leader of PAN in Puebla state, told me. “When he became governor, he transformed. Now he controls the party through threats. ” This race to retain control of the party leadership in 2014 was a crucial test for the governor, who was rumored to be considering a run for Mexico’s presidency in 2018. (This past September, Moreno Valle publicly announced his intent to run.) Clashes between the two camps were especially intense in Puebla, where backers of the challenger, Ernesto Cordero, claimed that the governor was using public money to support the incumbent, Gustavo Madero, though the governor’s office has denied these charges. Shortly before the election, Madero’s campaign manager said that Cordero’s side was trying to undermine the legitimacy of the process. “Their strategy is clear from the outset,” he said in an interview with a Mexican magazine. “’u2009‘If I win, good. If not, I was cheated. ’’u2009” After Lagunes’s call on Election Day, her colleagues rushed from the restaurant back to their local headquarters, a hotel conference room that they had nicknamed “the bunker. ” All morning, they had been trying to reach their field network, a group of 40 Cordero canvassers who were working to get out the vote in Puebla state. But the field network seemed to have gone dark. Few of the canvassers were even answering their phones. Hackers, the team concluded, must have found the list of the canvassers’ names and phone numbers  —   widely circulated by email within the campaign  —   and begun to intimidate them. “The day before,” the consultant told me, the field network was “motivated and eager to do this work. After the hack, it was very hard to reach them. The few who did answer said that they had received phone calls saying that their lives were at stake. They were worried that if they went out, they or their families would get hurt. ” According to another worker on Cordero’s campaign, who also requested anonymity, citing fear of reprisal, the message to the canvassers was simple and direct: “We know who you are. If you don’t want any trouble, shut down your cellphone and stop your activity. ” The worker added: “It’s an authoritarian regime. ” Madero won the election, with 57 percent of the 162, 792 votes cast over all. In Puebla, his margin was substantially larger, roughly 74 percent. Cordero’s team decided not to contest the result. They had suspicions about how they were hacked. But it would be another year before any evidence emerged. Their political enemies, leaked documents seemed to show, had built a spying operation using software made by an Italian firm called Hacking Team  —   just one of many private companies that, largely below public notice, have sprung up to aid governments in surveilling the private lives of individual citizens. The industry claims that its products comply with local laws and are used to fight crime and terror. But in many countries around the world, these tools have proved to be equally adept at political espionage. On average, an American office worker sends and receives roughly 120 emails per day, a number that grows with each passing year. The ubiquity and utility of email has turned it into a   record of our    lives, rich with mundane and potentially embarrassing details, stored in a perpetual archive, accessible from anywhere on earth and protected, in some cases, by nothing more than a single password. In the case of Violeta Lagunes, her email login represented a point of vulnerability, a seam where the digital walls protecting her campaign were at the mercy of her human judgment  —   specifically, whether she could determine if a message from an apparently reputable source was real or fake. Nearly two years later, John Podesta, chairman of Hillary Clinton’s campaign, was faced with a similar judgment call. An email warned him that someone in Ukraine had tried to access his Gmail account and asked him to click on a button and reset his password. His senior adviser forwarded the email to one of the campaign’s technology experts. “This is a legitimate email,” he replied, in what the expert later would clarify was a simple typing error on his part he meant to say it was not legitimate. “The gmail one is REAL,” the senior adviser wrote to Podesta and another aide. And so, like Lagunes, Podesta fell into a trap. The button appeared to lead to an official Google page, but it was in fact a meticulously personalized fake, with a domain address linked to a remote cluster of atolls in the South Pacific. The details were designed to trick Podesta into entering his password. This technique is known as “spear phishing. ” It is an especially potent weapon against companies and political organizations because it needs to succeed only one time, against one target. After that, attackers can use the trusted identity of the first compromised account to more easily lure colleagues into opening infected attachments or clicking on malicious links. Not only will a working email password yield years of intraoffice chatter, invoices,   bills and confidential memos it can often be leveraged into control of other personal accounts  —   Twitter, Facebook, Amazon  —   and even access to company servers and internet domains. The Podesta and Lagunes episodes are far from the only cases in which hackers have used information from stolen emails as a weapon against an entire institution. The 2009 “Climategate” incident, which exposed troves of emails from prominent climate researchers, began when hackers remotely broke into servers at a British university with the help of illicitly obtained passwords. The 2014 hack of internal Sony files, which American officials attributed to the North Korean government, began with a series of   emails that attackers then used to dig deeper into Sony’s servers. Each hack yielded the most private thoughts and deeds from the members of each respective organization: their blunt insults, their quashed dissents, their   plans, their smarmy flattery, all chronicled in time down to the hundredth of the second when the author clicked “send. ” In an earlier era, the hackers might have had to engage in riskier behavior, like bribery or burglary. Now, in many cases, all they had to do was send along a link. The White House, C. I. A. and F. B. I. have all claimed that, based on classified evidence, they can trace the hacks of Podesta’s email account (and other hacks of people close to the Clinton campaign) back to the Russian government. But with the rise of private firms like Hacking Team, penetrating the email accounts of political opponents does not require the kind of money and expertise available to major powers. A   website called Insider Surveillance lists more than a dozen companies selling   ethical malware, including   Hacking Team and the German firms FinFisher and Trovicor. Compared with conventional arms, surveillance software is subject to few trade controls a recent attempt by the United States to regulate it under a   pact called the Wassenaar Arrangement failed. “The technology is morally neutral,” says Joel Brenner, a former inspector general of the National Security Agency. “The same program that you use to monitor your babysitter might be used by Bashar Assad or Abdel Fattah   to keep track of whomever they don’t like. ” Hacking Team has fewer than 50 employees, but it has customers all over the world. According to internal documents, its espionage tool, which is called the Remote Control System, or R. C. S. can be licensed for as little as $200, 000 a year  —   well within the budget of a provincial strongman. After it has been surreptitiously installed on a target’s computer or phone, the Remote Control System can invisibly eavesdrop on everything: text messages, emails, phone and Skype calls, location data and so on. Whereas the N. S. A. ’s   programs grab data in transit from switching rooms and undersea cables, the R. C. S. acquires it at the source, right off a target’s device, before it can be encrypted. It carries out an invisible, digitized equivalent of a    . The United States government is almost certainly the world’s most formidable repository of hacking talent, but its most powerful cyberweapons are generally reserved for intelligence agencies and the military. This might explain why, according to company documents, at least two federal   agencies have been Hacking Team clients: the F. B. I. beginning in 2011, and the Drug Enforcement Administration, beginning in 2012. The F. B. I. contract paid Hacking Team more than $700, 000 the D. E. A. appears to have used the software to go after targets in Colombia. Documents show that the company has also sold its software to some of the world’s most repressive governments. Some, like those of Honduras, Ethiopia, Bahrain, Morocco, Egypt and Saudi Arabia, are Western allies. Other countries, like Uzbekistan and Turkey, have a more troubled relationship. A few are openly hostile to the West. Between 2012 and 2014, Hacking Team was paid nearly one million euros by the government of Sudan, a United   state sponsor of terrorism. Even more notable, in light of recent events, is the   relationship that Hacking Team carried on with the F. S. B. one of Russia’s main intelligence agencies. As with Puebla, Hacking Team used a middleman, a research agency called Kvant, to handle its sales to Russia. Between 2012 and 2014, the agency paid Hacking Team 451, 000 euros to license the Remote Control System. Hacking Team claims that it draws the line at customers who commit “gross   abuses” and that it sells exclusively to governments operating within the laws of their own countries. In at least one case, David Vincenzetti, Hacking Team’s founder and chief executive, told a salesman to hold off on a potential Mexican client. “We sell to official, governmental LEAs”  —     agencies  —   “and security agencies ONLY,” Vincenzetti wrote in an email. But at other times, a more casual attitude prevailed inside the company. “If one sells sandwiches to Sudan, he is not subject, as far as my knowledge goes, to the law,” one Hacking Team lawyer wrote in an internal email. “Hacking Team should be treated like a sandwich vendor. ” When asked about its arrangements in various countries, the company responded that it “does not comment on confidential business dealings. ” Its American spokesman, Eric Rabe, did tell me that neither Russia nor Sudan is a current Hacking Team customer. (The relationships, Rabe wrote, ended in 2014, Russia because “the Putin government evolved from one considered friendly to the West to a more hostile regime” and Sudan “because of concerns about the country’s ability to use the system in accordance with the H. T. contract. ”) Separately, the company confirmed that the state of Puebla was, in fact, a former client. Until recently, most of what was known about the world of private surveillance companies was a matter of hearsay and speculation. Industry players kept a low profile, operating discreetly from rented offices and meeting potential customers in person a few times a year at carefully screened trade shows. This is why it was so notable when, in July 2015, an unusual tweet appeared in Hacking Team’s Twitter feed. “Since we have nothing to hide,” it read, “we’re publishing all our emails, files and source code. ” Then came another tweet, with links to a downloadable file called Hacked Team. The file was huge, 420 gigabytes of material scraped from Hacking Team’s internal servers. Inside were 33 folders containing the company’s contracts, payroll documents, invoices, legal memos,   records and a   cache of email correspondence from the chief executive on down. Hacking Team had itself been hacked. WikiLeaks pounced on the breach and quickly uploaded the emails into a searchable database. Anyone with an internet connection could now read the chief executive joking about how his company was in the business of selling “the evilest technology on earth. ” You could browse Hacking Team’s source code, including one line using “bomb_blueprints. pdf” as a placeholder for files that might be found on a target’s device. On Reddit, an online peanut gallery formed around the   online habits of one Hacking Team engineer and his own notably weak passwords  —   HTPassword! P4ssword, Passw0rd. But the most damaging exposures in the leak by far were Hacking Team’s client list and the names of some of the clients’ targets. In South Korea, newspapers focused on evidence suggesting that Hacking Team’s software had helped the nation’s intelligence service rig an election after the leak, one agent who had reportedly used the system there committed suicide. In Ecuador, a magazine found an email with seven phone numbers that the government appeared to have targeted with the R. C. S. Three belonged to lawmakers a fourth to the mayor of Quito all four were members of the opposition party. With the source code for the Remote Control System now public, the company and its clients had to stop using it temporarily. By the end of the year, though, Hacking Team had updated its product and was trying to rebuild its reputation. I was curious whether a company that profited from online breaches could recover from its own. Eric Rabe, the American spokesman, sounded eager to meet me for coffee in Philadelphia. A grandfather and former   anchor, he exudes   credibility. “If you disagree with someone on the internet,” he said, of the Hacked Team files, with a wave of his hand, “there’s no need to have a   debate. Just go destroy them. ” A couple of months later, I went to Milan to visit Hacking Team’s headquarters, a stately gray apartment building with boxes of limp flowers adorning a few of its sooty sills. Waiting to demonstrate the company’s software were Rabe Philippe Vinci, a company vice president and Alessandro Scarafile, a young engineer. Scarafile had gathered a Dell desktop computer and three smartphones: iPhone, BlackBerry and Android. The screen from his own laptop, which represented the console of a client intelligence agency, was projected on the wall. Several icons represented the various streams of data that could potentially be acquired by gaining control of the target’s computer: images from   cameras, sound from   mikes, screenshots, detailed records of applications opened and bitcoins transferred, a continuous log of location with latitude and longitude, and logs of address books, calendars, phone calls, Skype calls and passwords, as well as websites visited. A key logger recorded every key that was pressed. It was a lot to keep track of. Two other views, called “line of events” and “line of actions,” assembled the information into chronological order. Scarafile, who was playing both the customer and the target, or “bad guy,” turned on the Dell. Judging by the background on the desktop, a gothic scene framed by castlelike silhouettes, our target seemed to be planning a terrorist attack from Transylvania. There are three methods, Scarafile explained, for getting the Remote Control System onto a target’s device. Customers can gain physical access to the device and then infect it with a USB stick or memory card. They can beam the R. C. S. in over a   network. Or they can send the customer an email and get him to click on an infected attachment  —   usually a file from a   program like Microsoft Word or PowerPoint. Scarafile did not mention a fourth method, one described by Hacking Team’s critics and referred to in its internal emails: the installation of the R. C. S. through a more elaborate process called “network injection,” which is said to involve pinpointing the target’s exact location on the internet, observing the person as he orders up, say, a YouTube cat video, and then serving up a doctored version of the same page, one with the desired cat video playing in the foreground  —   YouTube logo and all  —   as the R. C. S. discreetly rolls in past the digital gates. Whatever the method of infection, the malicious code, known as an “agent,” then communicates with its masters anonymously, its dispatches routed through a series of dedicated servers scattered around the world. Even if the target gets suspicious and figures out that something is wrong, this chain of servers makes it nearly impossible for him to figure out exactly who is using Hacking Team’s product to spy on him. For the demo, Scarafile opted for the third method, which he referred to as “a bit of social engineering. ” Using the customer’s computer, he sent the target an email with a Word file attached. Then he returned to the target’s computer and   on it, just as Lagunes had clicked on the link in her inbox. “From now on,” he said, “this system is currently infected, or monitored, by the Remote Control System. ” It would remain so even if the suspect turned off his machine or logged out. On the timeline, the target appeared as a stubbly lout in an undershirt, named “Jimmy Page . .. head of the terrorist cell. ” Using Jimmy Page’s Dell, Scarafile logged into Page’s Gmail, Facebook and Twitter. He opened up Skype, perused Page’s criminal colleagues (Don Corleone, Harry Potter, Keyser Soze) and left one of them a voice mail message from Page’s phone. Accessing a USB drive attached to the infected computer, Scarafile opened an encrypted file that turned out to contain an order to “kill David Vincenzetti. ” R. C. S. captured it all, including periodic snapshots of Scarafile, as Page, at work. “I don’t like the words ‘inject’ and ‘infect,’’u2009” Vinci, the vice president, said. “R. C. S. is deploying the agent into the device of the target because you want to monitor some of his activities. Exactly the way that law enforcement is listening to some of your phone calls, right?” Rabe had told me that Vincenzetti was “a fighter,” and his combative side was apparent from a collage of magazine clippings and printouts taped to the wall beside his desk  —   a sort of mood board, like those used in the advertising industry to gather inspiration before the unveiling of a new brand. Vincenzetti’s mood board, though, wasn’t about sneakers or cola. It was about the global struggle for power, which he seemed to envision as one big conflict, a battle between the good guys and the bad guys. On the good side was a photo of the bell that aspiring Navy SEALs can ring should they want to quit the program during Hell Week, and a quote from another entrepreneur that “business is war. ” On the bad side, Vincenzetti had taped up a satellite image showing one of the hottest zones of international tension, the artificial islands rising in the South China Sea, a line of terrestrial pawns advancing China’s sphere of influence. Beside it was a chart about Iran, depicting how the country could continue to advance its nuclear program despite the recent   deal. “I think the Iran deal is just terrible,” Vincenzetti said, and then added, sarcastically, “Oh, it’s such a very peaceful expansion. Very peaceful. ” “That is not an official company position,” Rabe interjected. Vincenzetti, now 48, is a familiar type  —   a ferociously competitive, driven entrepreneur whose existence is organized around his work. He has a wife, who was born in Morocco, and no children. His small,   eyes can make him seem sleepily blasé. On the morning we met at Hacking Team’s offices, he wore jeans, a   cardigan and a striped shirt, unbuttoned to midchest. He seemed more comfortable on his feet than sitting down. As we talked in a conference room, he periodically leapt to his feet and stalked around the table, considering in turn the espresso machine, the view from the window, a case of bottled water. “If I wanted to break into this room, how would I do it?” he asked. “There is a door, and there are two windows. ” He pressed his hands against the glass panes. “The perimeter is the first thing you must secure,” he continued. Securing data was what he did earlier in his career. Now he had moved on. “If you cannot break into a bank, you cannot protect a bank. So when you are in security, really there is no difference between thinking offensively and defensively. ” In the   Vincenzetti’s parents, a salesman and a schoolteacher, bought him a Commodore 64, one of the earliest personal computers. He soon created a   clone, a Tron   game and a   adventure game. As a   student at the University of Milan in the ’90s, he became fascinated by cryptography he corresponded with programmers around the world about new cryptographic theories and wrote code for email encryption. In his senior year, he was appointed to administer the university’s internal network, a post that was usually reserved for a graduate student. Vincenzetti remembers these early days as a time when “everything was free and no one was trying to harm you. We were wide open and accessible. All the best were called hackers, and I was a hacker. ” Vincenzetti left university early and founded three companies, all of them focused on defensive cybersecurity. After he founded Hacking Team in 2003, he tried to sell his services to Italian police agencies but found them skeptical that Mafiosi and other   criminals would ever bother to encrypt their communications. In Italy, the police were also used to getting whatever they needed through wiretaps, arranged with varying degrees of formality through their contacts at telecommunications firms. But after the 2004 Madrid train bombings, which were coordinated via cellphones and the internet, police officers and intelligence agents not just in Italy but all across Europe became interested in contracting with   vendors, part of an emerging arms race over   encryption. The growth of Skype made it easy for users to encrypt their communications, and the authorities were eager to pay for countermeasures like the Remote Control System. Singapore, Hacking Team’s first   client, signed on in 2008. The company’s Middle Eastern business took off in 2011, a boom that coincided with the beginning of the Arab Spring. By then, Hacking Team had entered a growth phase, its business driven in part by demand among   governments for   surveillance tools. According to two former employees, the company held talks with Col. Muammar  ’s chief security officer, who wanted to build a countrywide   scheme that could be embedded in every Libyan cellphone. (Rabe would not confirm or deny that this meeting occurred, and added: “The company often receives requests to provide services that it does not have available or would sell. ”) The United Nations, which prohibits the export of “electronic weaponry” to Sudan, has investigated Hacking Team’s activities there. Nineteen members of the Italian Parliament signed a petition raising the question of whether the Egyptian government might have used the R. C. S. to track Giulio Regeni, a    Italian student who appears to have been under government surveillance and whose mutilated body turned up on the side of a road in Egypt last year. Hacking Team’s software has not been connected to the case, but the company has done business with the current Egyptian regime. As part of the controversy, the Italian government temporarily revoked Hacking Team’s global export license, so that for several months the company had to file a separate application for each of its customers outside the European Union. (When I brought up the Regeni case with Rabe, he called the dead student “this Italian national who got himself killed in Egypt. ” He cited Hacking Team’s official policy  —   the company neither knows nor desires to know the identities of the people its customers choose to target. “There is no evidence that Hacking Team’s software had anything to do with Regeni’s demise,” Rabe said.) All Hacking Team customers sign contracts agreeing to comply with local laws. The company says that it vets potential customers and studies reports from journalists and   groups, looking for “objective evidence or credible concerns” that its products are being abused. But when it comes to Hacking Team’s own interactions with customers, leaked documents suggest that employees have sometimes turned a blind eye. In the case of the Puebla government and other Latin American customers, Hacking Team employees appeared to ignore warnings suggesting that the Remote Control System was being used to gather intelligence on the political opposition. On multiple occasions, customers emailed Hacking Team attachments with   content, including polling data, party registration forms and invitations addressed to and signed by elected officials. Rather than ask what these files had to do with fighting crime and drug trafficking, Hacking Team   members simply emailed them back, as requested, with an embedded “exploit,” turning the document into a surveillance tool to be used against whomever it was sent on to. Asked about these cases, Rabe replied that customers “are not supposed to be using it for political purposes, but I don’t think it’s reasonable to expect that an Italian computer programmer,” i. e. a support technician, “would have seen these files and known what was going on. . .. I think that’s a stretch, that an Italian software guy could know that an individual is a dissident. ” Hacking Team’s most persistent critic is Citizen Lab, a research group at the University of Toronto’s Munk School of Global Affairs. Before the Hacked Team leak, Citizen Lab documented cases in which Hacking Team software turned up on the devices of activists in Morocco and the United Arab Emirates, as well as an   journalist in Alexandria, Va. Ronald Deibert, Citizen Lab’s director, told me that Hacking Team “is a company that appears to have no internal controls on abuse of its products. ” When I asked Vincenzetti about this, he said that Citizen Lab was motivated by money, noting that the group won a   grant a week after publishing a report on Hacking Team’s sales to Ethiopia. “Their identity,” he said, “is: ‘I am the defender of free speech, I am the defender of liberty and democracy.’ O. K. So am I. So is every rational guy. ” If Citizen Lab really cared about good and evil, he said, it would be fighting China and Iran. Almost immediately after the Hacked Team documents went online, they were being pored over by R3D, a Mexico     group. Luis Fernando García, R3D’s director, says that intimidation and online surveillance have increased under Peña Nieto’s presidency, and he took notice when Citizen Lab, in 2014, released a report that traced a chain of servers associated with Hacking Team that routed data through Hong Kong, London, Amsterdam and Atlanta before terminating somewhere inside Mexico. Exactly who was on the receiving end of the traffic and what they were doing with it was unknown at the time, but now R3D’s team recognized that this could be their chance to find out. Shortly thereafter, R3D published three invoices from the Hacked Team cache showing that one state government  —   that of Jalisco, on the Pacific Coast  —   had paid the company nearly half a million euros for the Remote Control System. Soon other documents were found in the leak to implicate several more states, including Puebla, though most of the states denied ever using the software. (Jalisco later admitted to purchasing the system, which it claimed was for its prosecutor’s office.) The story failed to get much traction in the Mexican press, except in Puebla, after R3D connected with Lado B, a small   collective there. The site’s name translates to “B Side,” as in the back of a hit single  —   symbolizing its dedication to telling stories that would otherwise go untold. Lado B’s editor, Ernesto Aroche, was not surprised that Puebla’s government had been using the Remote Control System. In Moreno Valle’s six years as governor there, he has spent lavishly on new surveillance systems, including multiple “security arches,”   structures that scrutinize traffic with video cameras and   and whose cost had raised some questions in the local press. Beginning in 2013, Aroche began noticing solicitations on the   website for hidden cameras and other spying equipment. When he filed a   request about them, the government’s form response indicated that these orders had never been filled, but Aroche was skeptical, given the mounting evidence that Moreno Valle’s administration had begun using its security apparatus for political purposes. There were periodic   of homes belonging to dissident politicians and journalists, with the burglars sometimes taking little besides their victims’ laptops. Politicians would answer calls from unknown numbers, only to hear their own taped conversations played back to them. Another journalist, Fernando Maldonado, received an unmarked envelope full of what were purportedly transcripts of 400 private phone calls made by Puebla politicians. As Aroche and R3D sifted through the Hacked Team file dump, they discovered that the files on Puebla had more detail than those dealing with Hacking Team’s other Mexican accounts. The Puebla client often wrote emails asking for help with infecting a particular document with a malicious virus. Some of these came from an account  —   soporteuiamx@gmail. com  —   that also appears in many of Hacking Team’s internal support tickets. One of those tickets documents a client’s request for help in infecting an attachment: an invitation to attend an event for a Mexican political organization, signed by Violeta Lagunes and addressed to another party colleague opposed to the governor. Aroche interviewed politicians and journalists who were on the receiving end of the infected emails contained in the Hacked Team trove. According to a 2015 article that Lado B published in conjunction with a politics website, the Puebla group sent Hacking Team at least 47 requests to infect specific files that it would then forward on to their targets. Almost all of those files had to do with political issues. Going through the Hacked Team materials, Aroche found the name of a Puebla government employee who seemed to be working within the spying operation. “Before, we had been talking about ghosts,” Aroche told me. “Now, we could prove it. We started putting names on the actors. ” More than a year later, there have been no political repercussions for the governor or his allies in Puebla. I met Aroche this fall at the Lado B offices, a small room facing a courtyard in a crumbling stone building from Puebla’s colonial days. The only suggestion of Lado B’s presence was a small sticker on the window. Inside, Aroche was thumbing through an envelope of documents that he had wrung out of the state government. Two redacted contracts signed by Puebla officials showed an arrangement between the state government and a company called Sym Servicios Integrales, which Aroche’s reporting had identified as an intermediary for Hacking Team. The details of what had been purchased were redacted. “These contracts demonstrate that the Puebla government had a commercial relationship with this company,” Aroche said. “I’m sorry if they’re a little bit stained  —   I dropped some coffee on them. ” (Sym Servicios Integrales says it “never sold H. T. technology to the state of Puebla. ”) In a brief written statement from Sagrario Conde Valerio, a spokeswoman, the government of Puebla denied allegations of spying and claimed that “no relationship exists nor has ever existed between the government of Puebla and the company ‘Hacking Team. ’’u2009” The government declined to respond further to a list of questions. But a former official from Moreno Valle’s administration claimed to me that more than $1 million was being diverted from the state budget each year to fund the   unit. Documents from the Hacked Team archive indicate that Hacking Team received an order from the government of Puebla for 415, 000 euros in the spring of 2013, and that Hacking Team booked hotel rooms for three of its associates who traveled to Puebla in May of that year. Some of the R. C. S. training, I was told, took place in a green building on a residential street. When I visited the purported site this fall, lettering above the door said that the building was once a school. Now it had bars across the door and mirrored windows. Neighbors told me it had been abandoned for several months. “People would come and go,” one woman said. “They were very secretive. They would drop off equipment, take away equipment. Then one day, about a year ago, they came and took everything away and left. ” Another neighbor said that he often saw a   car parked in front of the house and a man with a limp entering and leaving  —   a former Mexican intelligence agent, according to someone who was present during the Hacking Team training. Mexico is Hacking Team’s biggest export market, accounting for nearly six million euros in sales, according to leaked documents. Ostensibly, the Remote Control System is intended for fighting criminals and drug traffickers there. (“There have been reports that the software was used in the apprehension of Chapo Guzman,” Rabe told me, referring to the Mexican drug lord. “I can’t confirm it. ”) The files indicate that at least seven other Mexican state governments were Hacking Team clients, but because they did not use email to the same extent as Puebla, their activities are harder to track. Multiple former Hacking Team employees told me that abuses of the software were not limited to Puebla. One former employee described having the system set up inside a mayor’s office. Katitza Rodríguez,   director at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, says that Mexican law allows for interception of communication, like the wiretapping of phone lines, but it does not grant precise legal authority to use new, powerful invasive tools like those created by Hacking Team. And she argues that it is much more dangerous in Mexico than in other Western countries, where checks and balances are stronger. “This is much more intrusive than the interception of a phone call,” she said. “They are not only listening they are taking over your laptop. Mexico needs to have a full debate in Congress about what legal safeguards are needed for this kind of surveillance or if the government should be using it at all. ” The Hacked Team files indicate that in   Hacking Team opened an American subsidiary and leased office space in Reston, Va. a   drive from the C. I. A. ’s headquarters. The company drew up a “U. S. action plan,” calling for a significant North American expansion, with new hires and rounds of pitches to the Department of Justice, the United States military and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. Hacking Team was also targeting another potentially lucrative market: American state and local governments. It pitched the R. C. S. to   agencies in San Bernardino, Calif. Washington New York Fort Lauderdale and Orlando. In a risk assessment commissioned by the company, lawyers advised that such sales were probably legal, so long as the product was provided “at a distance” from actual investigations and used “in the normal course of government operations. ” American expansion by companies like Hacking Team may not face much resistance from the federal government, which is becoming more accepting of electronic surveillance as part of normal police work. Last year, the Justice Department successfully changed the rules of criminal procedure, making it easier for federal agents to hack into multiple computers with a single warrant. Senator Steve Daines of Montana, who tried to block the change, complained that it gives “unlimited power for unlimited hacking. ” In a 2014 address, now referred to in cybersecurity circles as his “Going Dark” speech, the F. B. I. ’s director, James Comey, argued that the encryption built into Apple products posed a threat to public safety  —   enabling not only terrorism but also drug trafficking, child abuse and   . Instead of “a safe that can’t be cracked,” Comey wanted technology companies to lend him the combination. “The law hasn’t kept pace with technology, and this disconnect has created a significant   problem,” Comey said. “We call it ‘going dark. ’’u2009” As the United States government has argued for weaker protections around personal communications, American businesses have been spreading more powerful surveillance tools around the world. Many foreign   agencies already buy   products from SS8  —   a company backed by the storied   firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield Byers  —   as well as from the Harris Corporation, a $13 billion company based in Florida and traded on the New York Stock Exchange. At least 25 American police departments have used Harris’s Stingray device, which mimics cellphone towers and can intercept cellphone calls within 200 meters. All known sales of Stingrays to local law enforcement have been authorized by the F. B. I. which has since fought in court to keep those sales secret. In Baltimore alone, Stingrays have been used more than 4, 000 times, in routine drug investigations. Much less is known about another Harris product, the advanced Hailstorm, which is also sold to local police departments. Hailstorm is reportedly capable of implanting malware that can take control of a targeted phone, much like Hacking Team’s R. C. S. The Hacked Team documents that offer the most revealing view of the company’s ethos happen to be the most public ones. For years, as often as two or three times a day, Vincenzetti sent mass emails to hundreds of his business contacts. The recipients included numerous members of the United States military and intelligence community, as well as government employees from the city of Cincinnati and the Internal Revenue Service. In these messages, Vincenzetti often addresses this audience collectively as “gents. ” The news he cites is a reminder of how the geopolitical winds have been blowing in favor of Hacking Team and other   allies of law and order. In Vincenzetti’s world, the system is always, as George Tenet famously said about  . 11 intelligence, “blinking red”: the imploding Middle East a restive,   Russia battalions of   jihadis roaming around Europe with their encrypted thumb drives and   expertise. Against this backdrop of   danger, concerns about human rights are naïve at best. Vincenzetti’s emails vividly exploit this sense of danger and alarm. He writes about shadowy gangs of Iranian hackers using the #JeSuisCharlie hashtag to inject malware into French laptops. He celebrates the conviction of Ross Ulbricht, a. k. a. the Dread Pirate Roberts, creator of the Silk Road website. After the arrests of two Uzbek men in Brooklyn for telling informants that they wanted to join up with ISIS, Vincenzetti writes of “a very serious terrorist plot on American soil foiled. ” He went on to tap out this sales pitch: The following day, he gave a few more hints: The tone of Vincenzetti’s sales patter was strangely upbeat, especially considering his dire forecasts. It was almost as if he were in the business of selling microwave ovens or sandwiches, not tools through which the private lives of criminals (and whoever else) could be fully laid bare. Vincenzetti’s unstated equation  —   privacy is secrecy, and secrecy is terrorism  —   is less controversial than it might appear. A supportive echo can be heard in many public statements from American officials, which Vincenzetti often cut and pasted into his mass emails. The former attorney general Eric Holder called for “investigative and prosecutorial tools that allow us to be  . ” When Comey warned that “encryption threatens to lead all of us to a very dark place,” Vincenzetti forwarded it along approvingly, with the tagline: “We DO have an answer to many if not all of his concerns. ” And when, in May 2015, Comey warned of a “threat” that had “morphed” into “a chaotic spider web,” Vincenzetti sent word to his “gents” as well. One month later, an anonymous hack revealed Hacking Team’s own invisible spider web, and one year later, during the   to Election Day, came the internal emails of the Democratic Party. By then it was clear that tools for digital burglary had spread well beyond the hands of regular police officers. Comey had argued for weaker safes Vincenzetti was selling longer crowbars. They could be used to chase Jimmy Page, arrest Chapo Guzman, fight crime, smear a political opponent or just keep tabs on someone, anyone. To be hidden is to be a terrorist  —   this was the heart of his pitch. Any digital redoubt that could resist being pried open was a public risk and a private opportunity."
72,17367,Why Men Don’t Want the Jobs Done Mostly by Women - The New York Times,New York Times,Claire Cain Miller,2017-01-05,2017.0,1.0,,"It hasn’t been a great time to be a man without a job. The jobs that have been disappearing, like machine operator, are predominantly those that men do. The occupations that are growing, like health aide, employ mostly women. One solution is for the men who have lost jobs in factories to become health aides. But while more than a fifth of American men aren’t working, they aren’t running to these new   jobs. Why? They require very different skills, and pay a lot less. They’re also seen as women’s work, which has always been devalued in the American labor market. The two occupations predicted by the Bureau of Labor Statistics to decline most quickly from 2014 to 2024 are locomotive firers, shrinking 70 percent, and vehicle electronics installers and repairers, down 50 percent. They are 96 percent and 98 percent male. Of the   jobs, many are various types of health aides, which are about 90 percent female. When men take these     jobs, they have more job security and wage growth than in   work, according to recent research. But they are paid less and feel stigmatized. “The jobs being created are very different than the jobs being eliminated,” said David Autor, an economist at M. I. T. “I’m not worried about whether there will be jobs. I’m very worried about whether there will be jobs for   adults, especially the males, who seem very reluctant to take the new jobs. ” Take Tracy Dawson, 53, a welder in St. Clair, Mo. He lost several jobs, some because his employers took the work to China and Mexico and others because the workers were replaced by robots. He has heard the promises of   jobs in the health care field: His daughter trained to be a medical technician. But he never considered it. “I ain’t gonna be a nurse I don’t have the tolerance for people,” he said. “I don’t want it to sound bad, but I’ve always seen a woman in the position of a nurse or some kind of health care worker. I see it as more of a woman’s touch. ” Also, health aides earn a median wage of $10. 50 an hour. Mr. Dawson used to earn $18 an hour making railroad traction motors. “I was a welder  —   that’s all I know how to do,” said Mr. Dawson, who is living on disability insurance because he has rheumatoid arthritis. Women were hit harder than men by the decline in   jobs, according to Mr. Autor. But they have more easily moved into the expanding occupations, and earn more college degrees than men. Women have always entered   fields  —   usually   professional ones  —   more than men enter   ones. There are now many female lawyers, but male nurses are still rare. One reason is that jobs done by women, especially caregiving jobs, have always had lower pay and lower status. Yet when men, especially white men, enter   fields, they are paid more and promoted faster than women, a phenomenon known as the glass escalator. Much of men’s resistance to   jobs is tied up in the culture of masculinity, say people who study the issue. Women are assumed to be empathetic and caring men are supposed to be strong, tough and able to support a family. “Traditional masculinity is standing in the way of   men’s employment, and I think it’s a problem,” said Andrew Cherlin, a sociologist and public policy professor at Johns Hopkins and author of “Labor’s Love Lost: The Rise and Fall of the   Family in America. ” “We have a cultural lag where our views of masculinity have not caught up to the change in the job market,” he said. But telling   men to take feminine jobs plays to their anxieties and comes off as condescending, said Joan Williams, a law professor at U. C. Hastings and author of “Reshaping the   Debate: Why Men and Class Matter. ” “White   men’s wages have plummeted, and what happens to men in that context is anxieties about whether they’re ‘real men,’ ” she said. It’s no surprise, then, that Donald J. Trump appealed to men who feel this way  —   not just his promises to bring back factory jobs, but also his machismo. Many unemployed men who did manual labor say they can’t take the time and make the effort to train for a new career because they have bills to pay. And they say they chose their original careers because they wanted to build things, not take care of people. Lawrence Katz, an economist at Harvard, has a term for this: “retrospective wait unemployment,” or “looking for the job you used to have. ” “It’s not a skill mismatch, but an identity mismatch,” he said. “It’s not that they couldn’t become a health worker, it’s that people have backward views of what their identity is. ” Jon Ray, 31, of Inez, Ky. was an electrician at a coal mine until it was shuttered a year ago. He applied unsuccessfully for maintenance and repair jobs, and got a job in manufacturing after enrolling in a program to learn how to operate computerized tools.   jobs weren’t an option, he said. “I couldn’t afford to go back to school,” he said. “And I’m used to working with my hands. ” If more men do   jobs, they could erase the stigma and turn them into men’s jobs, said Janette Dill, a sociologist at the University of Akron, at least for jobs that require less   caregiving. “More men will go into care because they don’t have a choice, but they’re going to carve out spaces for themselves that feel less like women’s work,” she said. Ms. Dill was a   of a study published in April that looked at what happens when men move into   jobs in the health care field. Men in the   health jobs, like the nursing assistants who change patients’ sheets and help them bathe, earned 10 percent less than men in   jobs. But they were less likely to be laid off and their wages rose over time, while   wages were stagnant. Technical health care jobs like ultrasound technician  —   requiring more training but not a college degree  —   paid 22 percent more than other   jobs, after controlling for things like education. They involve less interaction with patients and more with computers, so they are less stereotypically feminine. There is an education and race divide among the men who take these jobs, the study found. Black men were 3. 3 times as likely as white men to take the   health jobs, and other minority men were 1. 8 times as likely. White men were more likely to take the   technical jobs. For men without college degrees, more technical training that equips them for those jobs could help. And if health aide jobs paid more and offered better benefits, they’d probably attract more men. Some hospitals are trying to make caregiving jobs seem manly  —   like with a recruitment poster comparing the “adrenaline rush” of being an operating room nurse to mountain climbing. Perhaps then men could take the same pride in their work that Mr. Dawson, the unemployed welder, showed when he talked about making pilings for the rebuilt World Trade Center. “I had a good life as a welder,” he said. “It always amused me. That’s one reason I picked the job. ”"
73,17368,Apple Removes New York Times Apps From Its Store in China - The New York Times,New York Times,Katie Benner and Sui-Lee Wee,2017-01-05,2017.0,1.0,,"Apple, complying with what it said was a request from Chinese authorities, removed news apps created by The New York Times from its app store in China late last month. The move limits access to one of the few remaining channels for readers in mainland China to read The Times without resorting to special software. The government began blocking The Times’s websites in 2012, after a series of articles on the wealth amassed by the family of Wen Jiabao, who was then prime minister, but it had struggled in recent months to prevent readers from using the   app. Apple removed both the   and   apps from the app store in China on Dec. 23. Apps from other international publications, including The Financial Times and The Wall Street Journal, were still available in the app store. “For some time now the New York Times app has not been permitted to display content to most users in China and we have been informed that the app is in violation of local regulations,” Fred Sainz, an Apple spokesman, said of the Times apps. “As a result, the app must be taken down off the China App Store. When this situation changes, the App Store will once again offer the New York Times app for download in China. ” Mr. Sainz declined to comment on what local regulations the Times apps were said to have violated, who had contacted Apple and when, and whether a court order or other legal document had been presented. China’s main internet regulator, the Cyberspace Administration of China, did not respond to faxed questions. The Times bureau in Beijing said it had not been contacted by the Chinese government about the matter. A Times spokeswoman in New York, Eileen Murphy, said the company had asked Apple to reconsider its decision. “The request by the Chinese authorities to remove our apps is part of their wider attempt to prevent readers in China from accessing independent news coverage by The New York Times of that country, coverage which is no different from the journalism we do about every other country in the world,” Ms. Murphy said in a statement. The request appears to have been made under regulations released in June 2016 called Provisions on the Administration of Mobile Internet Application Information Services. The regulations say apps cannot “engage in activities prohibited by laws and regulations such as endangering national security, disrupting social order and violating the legitimate rights and interests of others. ” The cyberspace administration says on its website that apps also cannot publish “prohibited” information. The ruling Communist Party tightly controls media inside China and employs one of the world’s most sophisticated systems of internet censorship. Chinese law prohibits the publication of “harmful information” online, and officials often take action without legal procedures or court orders against material they deem objectionable. Apple has previously removed other, less prominent media apps from its China store. It is unclear how the company evaluates requests from Beijing to take down apps and whether it ever resists them. Apple’s chief executive, Timothy D. Cook, has said that the company complies with all local laws. While in early 2016 Apple resisted a court request in the United States for it to help federal officials unlock an iPhone for a criminal investigation, Mr. Cook said he would obey whatever order the court ultimately handed down. In the end, the government was able to unlock the device without Apple’’s help and the case was dropped. Farzana Aslam, associate director of the Center for Comparative and Public Law at the University of Hong Kong, noted that in matters involving customer privacy, Apple requires governments to submit subpoenas, search warrants or other legal documents. “Maybe in the end they have to do it, but I think there’s something to be said about standing up for what you believe in and purporting to put principle before profit in a country like China, to show that actually there is this tension there,” Ms. Aslam said. “It’s not as simple as, ‘Because we operate in your jurisdiction, we’ll do anything you ask of us. ’” She added that it was “very worrying” that Apple had not disclosed what laws the authorities said were violated, making it difficult for The Times and other publishers to file an appeal or challenge the government’s requests. In the weeks leading up to the withdrawal of the Times apps, The Times was working on various articles related to the Chinese government. One of them, posted online on Dec. 29, revealed the billions of dollars in hidden perks and subsidies that the Chinese government provides to the world’s biggest iPhone factory. China is also one of Apple’s largest iPhone markets, though sales in that region have slowed. On Dec. 23, David Barboza, a Times reporter, spoke with members of Apple’s media team about the article. Mr. Barboza had previously been in touch with the iPhone factory owner, Foxconn. He had also contacted the Chinese government as part of his reporting. Later that day, a separate team from Apple informed The Times that the apps would be removed, Ms. Murphy said. In another article, published on Dec. 22 as a post on its Sinosphere blog, The Times described an   internet video that had been widely promoted by Chinese public security offices. The Times news apps remain available in Apple’s app stores for other countries, as well as the Hong Kong and Taiwan stores, but people must have a credit card with a billing address outside mainland China to download them. The Times crossword puzzle and virtual reality apps remain available throughout China. When the Chinese government began blocking the Times websites in 2012, it also prevented users with Times apps from downloading new content. But readers in China can still gain access to The Times using software that circumvents the government’s firewall. And in July 2015, The Times released a new version of its   app that adopted a different method for retrieving articles, one that the government appeared unable to stop. Apple’s decision to remove the app from its China store should not affect those who have already installed it. But users in China will not be able to download new releases unless they use another region’s app store. The Times discovered after being blocked in 2012 that hackers with possible ties to the Chinese military had targeted the newspaper’s computer systems and that the attacks coincided with the reporting for that Times investigation. Foreign tech companies face increasing pressure from government authorities in China. In April, Apple’s iBooks Store and iTunes Movies were shut down in the country, just six months after they were introduced there. Mark Natkin, the   managing director of Marbridge Consulting, who advises American technology firms in China, said he did not think any such company entering the Chinese market could “ever fully comprehend how challenging it’s going to be. ” Mr. Natkin said that Apple had a certain amount of leverage against the Chinese government in terms of the total amount of jobs created but that “the technology gap has started to close. ”"
78,17374,Coming to Carnival Cruises: A Wearable Medallion That Records Your Every Whim - The New York Times,New York Times,Brooks Barnes,2017-01-04,2017.0,1.0,,"DORAL, Fla.  —   Inside a clandestine Carnival Corporation complex here, two former Disney executives have been plotting a drastic cruise industry overhaul. Their mission: Take lessons learned at Walt Disney World, where they helped bring about a $1 billion vacation management system involving   bracelets that link to personal information, and apply them to cruises. The result: Millions of passengers on Carnival ships will soon be using a similar but more advanced system that allows travelers to do everything from plan vacations to open stateroom doors to order poolside cocktails. “As long as bigger, newer, cooler ships have kept coming, the cruise industry has treated guest liabilities  —   standing in long lines, having a frustrating embarkation experience  —   as acceptable,” said John Padgett, who joined Carnival in 2014 as chief experience and innovation officer after 18 years at Disney. “That thinking stops now. ” Carnival, which operates more than 100 ships worldwide under 10 brands, will unveil its ambitious technology initiative on Thursday at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. In a keynote speech, Arnold W. Donald, Carnival’s chief executive, intends to announce that the system  —   an app called Ocean Compass paired with a     smart medallion that can be carried in a pocket or worn as jewelry  —   will arrive on the company’s Princess Cruises fleet this year. Mr. Donald declined in an interview to give a timeline for bringing the technology (code name: Trident) to other Carnival brands. But he emphasized that rolling out the personalized disks and app was a companywide priority. “The cost is in the hundreds of millions of dollars, and, over time, more than that,” Mr. Donald said. “People want the world to be organized around them. On vacation, even more so. ” Analysts expect the technology to increase profits in multiple ways, including allowing Carnival to charge more for tickets, particularly on older ships. Ease of purchase is another big component  —   cruisers will be able to pay for food, drinks and merchandise simply by having their credit   Ocean Medallion in their pocket. Carnival’s disks, each   with the guest’s name, will also power a new, shipwide gambling platform. And Carnival gift shops will be stocked with a wide array of jewelry, clips and key chains that passengers can buy to carry and display their disks. Carnival’s top rival, Royal Caribbean Cruises, already offers smartbands on   ships like the Anthem of the Seas. Called WOW bands, they serve as room keys, allow for wireless payment and make it faster and easier to embark and disembark. But Carnival says that its offering takes such systems much further, in part because its technology is designed to be invisible. Unlike with smartbands, there is no need to tap a sensor on a stateroom door for entry simply approaching the correct room with the Ocean Medallion in your pocket will unlock the door. Among the medallion system’s other offerings is a navigation tool designed to help family members find one another on the   ships. Under Mr. Donald, who took over Carnival in   after a string of ship debacles, the company has boomed. In the most recent quarter, Carnival had a record $1. 4 billion in net income, a 17 percent increase from the same period a year earlier. But he remains under pressure to recruit new customers. About 24. 2 million people worldwide took a cruise in 2016, according to the Cruise Lines International Association. That sounds like a lot, but “cruise vacations only represent about 2 percent of all vacations,” said David Beckel, an analyst at Bernstein Research. “Because there is such a low penetration rate, any increase in penetration  —   even a minor, minor one  —   represents a big difference, and hence the effort to improve the customer experience,” Mr. Beckel said. As part of its Ocean Medallion plan, Carnival has turned to television, paying to produce three travel shows designed to make cruising look fun and easy. The shows has been broadcast on weekends in recent months on ABC, NBC and the CW. In one   episode of “The Voyager with Josh Garcia,” the host is seen chatting with artists in Puerto Rico about making masks from coconuts. Carnival plans to produce at least 80 episodes in total. Analysts have praised the effort. “People have a lot of preconceived notions about cruising that largely aren’t true,” said Robin M. Farley, an analyst for UBS. The system that Carnival plans to introduce on Thursday still has a lot to prove. The technology will require the mass retraining of employees and substantial retrofitting of ships, including the installation of roughly 7, 000 sensors per boat. And do passengers really want to sacrifice privacy for personalization? One feature will allow guests to watch live entertainment in ship lounges on their stateroom televisions  —   and the performers will know who is watching and will be trained to do  . (“Hello to Brooks, tuning in from his bed on the Promenade Deck! ”) Mr. Padgett acknowledged that some guests will have “creepiness factor” questions. But he expects the vast majority to participate. “As long as you benefit the guest, they don’t mind sharing” personal information, he said. Using the connected app, guests can order food to be delivered wherever they plan to be at a designated time. (Waiters will know who you are because your photograph will pop up on an   device when they get close to your medallion.) By loading preferences into the app while still at home, Carnival will be able to offer tailored lists of activities. “The goal of preplanning is learning more about our guests,” said Michael G. Jungen, who joined Carnival in 2015 as vice president for design and technology after 15 years at Disney. He noted that passengers would have the option of linking their medallions with social media accounts, allowing Carnival to delve even deeper. As Carnival designed the Ocean Medallion system inside an unmarked building here in suburban Miami, it built a replica set of staterooms, corridors and other ship facilities to test concepts. Scribbles on a monumental white board in one area contained algorithms and personalization ideas. (“What time you eat dinner. What channels you watch. ”) When they were leading Disney’s technology effort in 2013, Mr. Padgett and Mr. Jungen built a similar laboratory, experimenting with ideas that ultimately became MyMagic+ the theme park wristband system that serves as wallet, room key, admission ticket, photograph collector and   pass. As he gave a reporter a tour of the Carnival site, Mr. Padgett continually returned to the topic of Disney  —   how the cost of cruising compares with a family trip to Disney World, and how Disney frames vacations as overarching stories. “The ultimate goal here,” he said, turning to a   Disney phrase, “is to delight and surprise our guests. ”"
79,17376,2 Credit-Reporting Agencies Must Pay $23 Million for Deceptive Practices - The New York Times,New York Times,Reuters,2017-01-03,2017.0,1.0,,"The nation’s consumer watchdog agency on Tuesday ordered the   agencies TransUnion and Equifax to pay more than $23. 2 million in fines and restitution for deceiving customers about the usefulness of credit scores and the cost of obtaining them. The watchdog agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, said the payments would resolve charges that TransUnion and Equifax had lured consumers into enrolling in credit services advertised as free or costing only $1, but which could cost more than $200 a year. TransUnion will reimburse $13. 93 million to consumers and pay a $3 million civil fine, while Equifax will reimburse $3. 8 million and pay a $2. 5 million civil fine, the bureau said. Both companies will also modify their marketing practices. Among the changes, they will obtain customers’ consent to enroll them in services in which fees begin after free trials and make it easier for them to cancel services they do not want. The bureau said the wrongful conduct had violated the     law and had occurred at TransUnion since July 2011 and at Equifax between July 2011 and March 2014. Many lenders rely on credit scores from TransUnion, Equifax and their rival Experian when lending money. But TransUnion and Equifax falsely represented the credit scores they sold to consumers as being the same scores that lenders used, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau said. “Credit scores are central to a consumer’s financial life, and people deserve honest and accurate information about them,” Richard Cordray, the bureau’s director, said in a statement. Neither TransUnion, which is based in Chicago, nor Equifax, which is based in Atlanta, admitted or denied wrongdoing. A TransUnion spokesman, David Blumberg, and an Equifax spokeswoman, Ines Gutzmer, said their companies believed that they had complied with the law and were committed to better educating consumers about their credit. Experian was not charged. A spokesman for the bureau did not immediately have additional comment. In 2015, under a separate settlement with 31 state attorneys general, the   agencies agreed to improve how they fixed mistakes and addressed disputes."
81,17379,Chase Sapphire Reserve Card’s Huge Bonus Will Be Slashed - The New York Times,New York Times,Ron Lieber,2017-01-23,2017.0,1.0,,"When a Wall Street banking institution starts throwing   bonuses at credit card customers, it may be best to grab them before they inevitably disappear. And so it goes with Chase Sapphire Reserve, a card that the bank, JPMorgan Chase, introduced last summer. The bank offered a   bonus worth $1, 500 to people who spent $4, 000 on the card in the first three months they had it and then redeemed the bonus for travel. Now the bank is cutting the bonus in half. Jan. 12 will be the last day that people can earn it by applying for the card online, though people who apply at a bank branch will still be able to get the bonus until March 12. You need not be a current bank customer to apply at a branch, according to a bank spokeswoman, Ashley E. Dodd, who confirmed the changes. The bonus played a big role in bringing the card so much attention, landing it on the cover of Bloomberg Businessweek and leading the bank to hand out so many perks that it caused a $200 million to $300 million hit to its earnings. Even without the outsize bonus, which was very rare in the history of credit card bonus offers, the card is likely to remain popular. While it has a steep $450 annual fee, cardholders receive a $300 credit each year for any travel spending they put on the card. And customers earn three points for every dollar they spend on all travel and dining, which can lead to better value than the rewards that most other cards offer for customers who spent a lot in those areas. The Points Guy blog first reported the slashing of the   bonus. Many such sites now exist to help consumers take advantage of the most lucrative   offers, while collecting commissions when they pass readers on to card issuers’ application sites. If those customers keep the cards for a few years (and especially if they run up balances and pay interest) the banks can come out ahead. With too many people gaming the offer, however, bank profitability can suffer, especially when the   bonuses are so large that they attract hordes of   consumers."
82,17381,Broadway Breaks Multiple Records Through New Year’s Weekend - The New York Times,New York Times,Michael Paulson,2017-01-05,2017.0,1.0,,"Broadway rang out 2016 with a very big bang. The 33 plays and musicals running last week brought in a whopping $49. 7 million, making it the   week in Broadway history. It was also the   week on record, with 359, 495 people seeing Broadway shows. All around Times Square, records were toppled like pins in a bowling alley: It was the best week ever for   shows like “Chicago,” “Jersey Boys” and “The Lion King” the most money ever grossed at multiple theaters built more than a century ago (for example, $911, 000 by “Oh, Hello” at the Lyceum, which was built in 1903) the most performances ever by a single show during a   period (17, by “The Illusionists”) and the most money ever grossed by a single show ($3. 3 million, by “Hamilton”). An astonishing 24 shows grossed more than $1 million last week, including seven that grossed more than $2 million, according to figures released Tuesday by the Broadway League. Three shows topped the $3 million mark: “Hamilton,” “Wicked” and “The Lion King. ” The grosses for the week ending Jan. 1 were 63 percent higher than the previous week, and 15 percent higher than the same week the previous year (even though there were five more shows playing at the same time last year). Why? The most significant factor appears to be pricing: The base prices for many Broadway shows are high, and the premium prices charged over the holiday period were even higher.   shows had an average price over $100. And for “Hamilton,” now the industry leader in pricing, the average price was $310, and the top price was $998. (That’s the price charged by the box office the first time a ticket was sold many people paid higher prices purchasing from resellers.) There were other factors contributing to the Broadway bonanza. New York City was wrapping up a banner year for tourism: an estimated 60. 3 million visitors, up from 58. 5 million the previous year, according to Christopher Heywood, a spokesman for NYC  Company, the city’s tourism agency. The period between Christmas and New Year’s is always popular for tourists  —   and lucrative for Broadway  —   but especially so this winter, because Christmas and New Year’s fell on weekends, and many people took off work the week in between. Multiple shows that aim heavily at tourists did extraordinarily well. For example: Cirque du Soleil’s first Broadway venture, “Paramour,” had its best week yet, at $1. 9 million, and “The Phantom of the Opera,” the   Broadway show and a reliable barometer for tourist traffic, had its best week too, also at $1. 9 million. Broadway took advantage of the expected high tourism last week by staging more performances. The usual Broadway schedule sees shows staged eight times a week, but last week 25 shows had nine performances. And then there was “The Illusionists,” a holiday season magic show, which managed to have 17 performances by scheduling shows three times a day Monday through Friday, and then twice on Sunday. Other factors: Broadway is on an upswing. Grosses and attendance have been growing for several years, and the current season has already featured strong starts for three new musicals: “Natasha, Pierre and the Great Comet of 1812,” “A Bronx Tale” and “Dear Evan Hansen. ” “The record just broken for both attendance and grosses for the last week reflects the continuing success of the range of theater being produced on Broadway,” said Charlotte St. Martin, the president of the Broadway League. Several shows that had announced closing dates had a surge of   patrons. “Matilda” closed on Sunday after its best week ($1. 9 million) and “Jersey Boys,” which closes on Jan. 15, set a record, too ($1. 8 million). Some plays benefited as well: “The Humans,” which won the Tony for best new play last year, grossed an impressive $815, 000 as it prepared to close on Jan. 15. Of course, the good news is not likely to last. January and February are generally soft months for Broadway. Thirteen shows are scheduled to close between Dec. 31 and Jan. 29, as theaters clear the decks for a round of openings in late winter and spring."
85,17384,Michael Eric Dyson Believes in Individual Reparations - The New York Times,New York Times,Ana Marie Cox,2017-01-07,2017.0,1.0,,"Your forthcoming book, “Tears We Cannot Stop,” is subtitled “A Sermon to White America. ” Which part of white America do you envision reading it? I envision the audience to be that ocean of white folk I encounter who are deeply empathetic to the struggles of minorities  —   they are the ones who ask me, “What can I do, as a white person?” This is my attempt to address them in the most useful and, hopefully, edifying manner. What’s your strategy for getting through to the white people who may not be particularly sympathetic? What I’ve seen under the wonderful presidency of Barack Obama is the tendency to not tell white people the truth, for obvious reasons  —   they don’t vote for you. But I’m not a politician. I don’t have that power or influence, but what I do wield is a different kind of bully pulpit. We have to have enough belief in white people to tell them the truth. They are grown! There are a lot of areas within race relations that seem like less of a conversation and more of an attempt to prove to white people that these issues  —   police brutality, for instance  —   are a real and present danger. I open this book with horror stories about my engagement with the police. These are the stories that have shaped me, that join me to the mass of people who, regardless of our station in life, regardless of educational attainment and achievement, have felt this. The president of the United States has these stories, the former attorney general has these stories and a prominent black intellectual like me has these stories. The reality is that this is part and parcel of what it means to be black in America, and I wanted to spend time talking and thinking about it from a number of different perspectives to show white brothers and sisters that we aren’t making this up. This is not fabricated. I can’t help but think that if the same levels of police brutality were happening to white people, we would just disband the police. Police brutality would not be seen as the price of keeping our society safe. Recently, I was outside of Ben’s Chili Bowl in Washington at 3 a. m. and a young white kid is cursing the police, and I’m going, “Oh, my God, they’re going to shoot him. ” And then it occurred to me that they wouldn’t  —   he’s a white kid. And what did I hear the police say? “Now, son, you’re clearly inebriated. You need to go home and sleep this off. ” And I said to myself: “My God! This is what we want!” We can’t even afford a display of anger that many white people have. At the end of your sermon, you do a “benediction” section, in which you talk about making reparations on the local and individual level: donating to groups like the United Negro College Fund or a scholarship program, but also, to cite your example from the book, paying “the black person who cuts your grass double what you might ordinarily pay. ” That gave me pause! Good! I used to say in church, “If the sermon ain’t making you a little bit uncomfortable, it ain’t effective. ” Look, if it doesn’t cost you anything, you’re not really engaging in change you’re engaging in convenience. You’re engaged in the overflow. I’m asking you to do stuff you wouldn’t ordinarily do. I’m asking you to think more seriously and strategically about why you possess what you possess. I agree with reparations, but maybe this is my white privilege speaking: I can’t imagine actually doing that. That is what I meant by an I. R. A.: an individual reparations account. You ain’t got to ask the government, you don’t have to ask your local politician  —   this is what you, an individual, conscientious, “woke” citizen can do. But charity can’t be the end of it, right? The Koch brothers gave the United Negro College Fund $25 million, but I doubt you would consider them “woke. ” No. Martin Luther King Jr. believed that charity is a poor substitute for justice. But I ain’t turning $25 million down."
86,17385,For Sale: Condé Nast Treasures - The New York Times,New York Times,Laura M. Holson,2017-01-05,2017.0,1.0,,"Condé Nast Publications might be sitting on a gold mine: its archive of some eight million photographs and illustrations from Vanity Fair, The New Yorker, Vogue, Architectural Digest and other magazines. Now, given the tenuous state of the media industry, the company has plans to exploit it. The archive is housed on the 15th floor of a building not far from Condé Nast’s headquarters at One World Trade Center in Lower Manhattan. Photographs and magazines, some going back more than 100 years, are stored in plastic slips and stacked in folders or tucked away in cabinets. Down the hall from the main room is a   locker, where original slides and transparencies are cataloged out of harm’s way. Here you will find the first cover of Vogue, from Dec. 17, 1892, a sketch of a debutante clad in a ball gown and floating on what appears to be a cloud pillow. And here is a photograph of Coco Chanel lounging on a sofa, taken by the Vogue photographer Horst P. Horst, who died in 1999. Binders stand on metal shelves, packed with transparencies from   runway shows in New York and Paris, a chronicle of shifting necklines, hems and bejeweled bodices. “This is the history of fashion,” said Ivan Shaw, 48, the former executive photo director of Vogue, who was named Condé Nast’s photography director for the archive in June. If all goes according to plan, much of this material will soon be the stuff of   prints,      coffee mugs, tote bags, pillows and such. Further, the company will invite the   known as influencers to explore the archive  —   videographers in tow  —   to discuss their favorite pieces and grab the interest of their   audiences. Mr. Shaw is part of a team charged with expanding sales of the archival goods. Since his appointment, as a major part of the initiative, he has been readying an online store, to be called Condé Nast Editions. Until recently, the archive team’s priority was preservation. But given the industrywide losses in print advertising, Condé Nast and other media companies are turning to new sources of revenue. “These images have unprecedented value,” said Cathy Hoffman Glosser, who was hired as the company’s senior vice president for licensing in 2015. “And we want these assets to become more accessible. ” Mr. Shaw calls the trove a time machine. “There is a story about every picture from an artist, what he or she has taken,” he said. He mentioned Edward Steichen, who worked for Vogue and Vanity Fair for 15 years beginning in the 1920s. “When I’m holding a photograph by Edward Steichen, for that moment, I am there. ” One of the photographers whose work has gained new attention since the opening of the archive is Horst, a favorite of Mr. Shaw’s, whose Vogue career flourished under the editor Diana Vreeland in the 1960s. In October, Condé Nast published a Horst volume, “Around That Time: Horst at Home in Vogue,” edited by Hamish Bowles. In addition to producing the book, Mr. Shaw curated exhibitions of Horst’s work at SOCO Gallery in Charlotte, N. C. and Venus Over Los Angeles in California. Others of note whose work sits in the archive and may soon be available to the wider world include Arthur Elgort, Robert Frank, George   Herbert Matter, Helmut Newton, Irving Penn, John Rawlings and Bert Stern, and the illustrators Miguel Covarrubias and Bob Staake. Condé Nast is not free to make commercial use of all its artists’ works, however Annie Leibovitz, who shoots for Vanity Fair and Vogue, owns the rights to her photographs. In a   of the archive’s appeal, Paddle8 recently offered three limited editions of The New Yorker’s May 2, 2016, “Purple Rain” cover illustration, a tribute to Prince by the artist Bob Staake, for $2, 700 apiece. (One has sold thus far.) Buyers with lighter wallets paid $95 for prints of the same cover at The New Yorker online store (189 were sold, Mr. Shaw said) or $325 for a signed,   version of the magazine cover (fans bought 121 of those). Mr. Shaw said he had two exhibitions and book projects in development on 1970s fashion photography, drawing on Vogue’s library, and a documentary in the works on Mr. Elgort, 76, the   Vogue photographer. Camilla Nickerson, a fashion editor at Vogue who worked with Mr. Shaw, said, “He has had to deal with a lot personalities and egos and he is good at being able to cope with their enormous needs. ” But Mr. Shaw seems most interested in the images themselves. While flipping through a 1957 copy of Architectural Digest, he lingered over a picture by Julius Shulman, whose photographs of Southern California architecture captured midcentury style. “You really feel like what the room would be like,” Mr. Shaw said, gazing at a Shulman photograph of a chic living room. “It’s not just a document. Look at the reproduction quality. I could look at these pictures all day long. ”"
89,17388,The Perfect Weapon: How Russian Cyberpower Invaded the U.S. - The New York Times,New York Times,"Eric Lipton, David E. Sanger and Scott Shane",2017-04-10,2017.0,4.0,,"WASHINGTON  —   When Special Agent Adrian Hawkins of the Federal Bureau of Investigation called the Democratic National Committee in September 2015 to pass along some troubling news about its computer network, he was transferred, naturally, to the help desk. His message was brief, if alarming. At least one computer system belonging to the D. N. C. had been compromised by hackers federal investigators had named “the Dukes,” a cyberespionage team linked to the Russian government. The F. B. I. knew it well: The bureau had spent the last few years trying to kick the Dukes out of the unclassified email systems of the White House, the State Department and even the Joint Chiefs of Staff, one of the government’s   networks. Yared Tamene, the   contractor at the D. N. C. who fielded the call, was no expert in cyberattacks. His first moves were to check Google for “the Dukes” and conduct a cursory search of the D. N. C. computer system logs to look for hints of such a cyberintrusion. By his own account, he did not look too hard even after Special Agent Hawkins called back repeatedly over the next several weeks  —   in part because he wasn’t certain the caller was a real F. B. I. agent and not an impostor. “I had no way of differentiating the call I just received from a prank call,” Mr. Tamene wrote in an internal memo, obtained by The New York Times, that detailed his contact with the F. B. I. It was the cryptic first sign of a cyberespionage and   campaign devised to disrupt the 2016 presidential election, the first such attempt by a foreign power in American history. What started as an   operation, intelligence officials believe, ultimately morphed into an effort to harm one candidate, Hillary Clinton, and tip the election to her opponent, Donald J. Trump. Like another famous American election scandal, it started with a   at the D. N. C. The first time, 44 years ago at the committee’s old offices in the Watergate complex, the burglars planted listening devices and jimmied a filing cabinet. This time, the burglary was conducted from afar, directed by the Kremlin, with   emails and zeros and ones. An examination by The Times of the Russian operation  —   based on interviews with dozens of players targeted in the attack, intelligence officials who investigated it and Obama administration officials who deliberated over the best response  —   reveals a series of missed signals, slow responses and a continuing underestimation of the seriousness of the cyberattack. The D. N. C. ’s fumbling encounter with the F. B. I. meant the best chance to halt the Russian intrusion was lost. The failure to grasp the scope of the attacks undercut efforts to minimize their impact. And the White House’s reluctance to respond forcefully meant the Russians have not paid a heavy price for their actions, a decision that could prove critical in deterring future cyberattacks. The   approach of the F. B. I. meant that Russian hackers could roam freely through the committee’s network for nearly seven months before top D. N. C. officials were alerted to the attack and hired cyberexperts to protect their systems. In the meantime, the hackers moved on to targets outside the D. N. C. including Mrs. Clinton’s campaign chairman, John D. Podesta, whose private email account was hacked months later. Even Mr. Podesta, a savvy Washington insider who had written a 2014 report on cyberprivacy for President Obama, did not truly understand the gravity of the hacking. By last summer, Democrats watched in helpless fury as their private emails and confidential documents appeared online day after day  —   procured by Russian intelligence agents, posted on WikiLeaks and other websites, then eagerly reported on by the American media, including The Times. Mr. Trump gleefully cited many of the purloined emails on the campaign trail. The fallout included the resignations of Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida, the chairwoman of the D. N. C. and most of her top party aides. Leading Democrats were sidelined at the height of the campaign, silenced by revelations of embarrassing emails or consumed by the scramble to deal with the hacking. Though   by the public, confidential documents taken by the Russian hackers from the D. N. C. ’s sister organization, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, turned up in congressional races in a dozen states, tainting some of them with accusations of scandal. In recent days, a skeptical   the nation’s intelligence agencies and the two major parties have become embroiled in an extraordinary public dispute over what evidence exists that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia moved beyond mere espionage to deliberately try to subvert American democracy and pick the winner of the presidential election. Many of Mrs. Clinton’s closest aides believe that the Russian assault had a profound impact on the election, while conceding that other factors  —   Mrs. Clinton’s weaknesses as a candidate her private email server the public statements of the F. B. I. director, James B. Comey, about her handling of classified information  —   were also important. While there’s no way to be certain of the ultimate impact of the hack, this much is clear: A     weapon that Russia had   in elections from Ukraine to Europe was trained on the United States, with devastating effectiveness. For Russia, with an enfeebled economy and a nuclear arsenal it cannot use short of   war, cyberpower proved the perfect weapon: cheap, hard to see coming, hard to trace. “There shouldn’t be any doubt in anybody’s mind,” Adm. Michael S. Rogers, the director of the National Security Agency and commander of United States Cyber Command, said at a postelection conference. “This was not something that was done casually, this was not something that was done by chance, this was not a target that was selected purely arbitrarily,” he said. “This was a conscious effort by a   to attempt to achieve a specific effect. ” For the people whose emails were stolen, this new form of political sabotage has left a trail of shock and professional damage. Neera Tanden, president of the Center for American Progress and a key Clinton supporter, recalls walking into the busy Clinton transition offices, humiliated to see her face on television screens as pundits discussed a leaked email in which she had called Mrs. Clinton’s instincts “suboptimal. ” “It was just a sucker punch to the gut every day,” Ms. Tanden said. “It was the worst professional experience of my life. ” The United States, too, has carried out cyberattacks, and in decades past the C. I. A. tried to subvert foreign elections. But the Russian attack is increasingly understood across the political spectrum as an ominous historic landmark  —   with one notable exception: Mr. Trump has rejected the findings of the intelligence agencies he will soon oversee as “ridiculous,” insisting that the hacker may be American, or Chinese, but that “they have no idea. ” Mr. Trump cited the reported disagreements between the agencies about whether Mr. Putin intended to help elect him. On Tuesday, a Russian government spokesman echoed Mr. Trump’s scorn. “This tale of ‘hacks’ resembles a banal brawl between American security officials over spheres of influence,” Maria Zakharova, the spokeswoman for the Russian Foreign Ministry, wrote on Facebook. Over the weekend, four prominent senators  —   two Republicans and two Democrats  —   joined forces to pledge an investigation while pointedly ignoring Mr. Trump’s skeptical claims. “Democrats and Republicans must work together, and across the jurisdictional lines of the Congress, to examine these recent incidents thoroughly and devise comprehensive solutions to deter and defend against further cyberattacks,” said Senators John McCain, Lindsey Graham, Chuck Schumer and Jack Reed. “This cannot become a partisan issue,” they said. “The stakes are too high for our country. ” Sitting in the basement of the Democratic National Committee headquarters, below a   2012 portrait of a smiling Barack Obama, is a   filing cabinet missing the handle on the bottom drawer. Only a framed newspaper story hanging on the wall hints at the importance of this aged piece of office furniture. “GOP Security Aide Among 5 Arrested in Bugging Affair,” reads the headline from the front page of The Washington Post on June 19, 1972, with the bylines of Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein. Andrew Brown, 37, the technology director at the D. N. C. was born after that famous  . But as he began to plan for this year’s election cycle, he was well aware that the D. N. C. could become a   target again. There were aspirations to ensure that the D. N. C. was well protected against cyberintruders  —   and then there was the reality, Mr. Brown and his bosses at the organization acknowledged: The D. N. C. was a nonprofit group, dependent on donations, with a fraction of the security budget that a corporation its size would have. “There was never enough money to do everything we needed to do,” Mr. Brown said. The D. N. C. had a standard email   service, intended to block phishing attacks and malware created to resemble legitimate email. But when Russian hackers started in on the D. N. C. the committee did not have the most advanced systems in place to track suspicious traffic, internal D. N. C. memos show. Mr. Tamene, who reports to Mr. Brown and fielded the call from the F. B. I. agent, was not a   D. N. C. employee he works for a   contracting firm called The MIS Department. He was left to figure out, largely on his own, how to respond  —   and even whether the man who had called in to the D. N. C. switchboard was really an F. B. I. agent. “The F. B. I. thinks the D. N. C. has at least one compromised computer on its network and the F. B. I. wanted to know if the D. N. C. is aware, and if so, what the D. N. C. is doing about it,” Mr. Tamene wrote in an internal memo about his contacts with the F. B. I. He added that “the Special Agent told me to look for a specific type of malware dubbed ‘Dukes’ by the U. S. intelligence community and in cybersecurity circles. ” Part of the problem was that Special Agent Hawkins did not show up in person at the D. N. C. Nor could he email anyone there, as that risked alerting the hackers that the F. B. I. knew they were in the system. Mr. Tamene’s initial scan of the D. N. C. system  —   using his    tools and incomplete targeting information from the F. B. I.  —   found nothing. So when Special Agent Hawkins called repeatedly in October, leaving voice mail messages for Mr. Tamene, urging him to call back, “I did not return his calls, as I had nothing to report,” Mr. Tamene explained in his memo. In November, Special Agent Hawkins called with more ominous news. A D. N. C. computer was “calling home, where home meant Russia,” Mr. Tamene’s memo says, referring to software sending information to Moscow. “SA Hawkins added that the F. B. I. thinks that this calling home behavior could be the result of a   attack. ” Mr. Brown knew that Mr. Tamene, who declined to comment, was fielding calls from the F. B. I. But he was tied up on a different problem: evidence suggesting that the campaign of Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, Mrs. Clinton’s main Democratic opponent, had improperly gained access to her campaign data. Ms. Wasserman Schultz, then the D. N. C. ’s chairwoman, and Amy Dacey, then its chief executive, said in interviews that neither of them was notified about the early reports that the committee’s system had likely been compromised. Shawn Henry, who once led the F. B. I. ’s cyber division and is now president of CrowdStrike Services, the cybersecurity firm retained by the D. N. C. in April, said he was baffled that the F. B. I. did not call a more senior official at the D. N. C. or send an agent in person to the party headquarters to try to force a more vigorous response. “We are not talking about an office that is in the middle of the woods of Montana,” Mr. Henry said. “We are talking about an office that is half a mile from the F. B. I. office that is getting the notification. ” “This is not a    delicatessen or a local library. This is a critical piece of the U. S. infrastructure because it relates to our electoral process, our elected officials, our legislative process, our executive process,” he added. “To me it is a   serious issue, and if after a couple of months you don’t see any results, somebody ought to raise that to a higher level. ” The F. B. I. declined to comment on the agency’s handling of the hack. “The F. B. I. takes very seriously any compromise of public and private sector systems,” it said in a statement, adding that agents “will continue to share information” to help targets “safeguard their systems against the actions of persistent cybercriminals. ” By March, Mr. Tamene and his team had met at least twice in person with the F. B. I. and concluded that Agent Hawkins was really a federal employee. But then the situation took a dire turn. A second team of   hackers began to target the D. N. C. and other players in the political world, particularly Democrats. Billy Rinehart, a former D. N. C. regional field director who was then working for Mrs. Clinton’s campaign, got an odd email warning from Google. “Someone just used your password to try to sign into your Google account,” the March 22 email said, adding that the   attempt had occurred in Ukraine. “Google stopped this   attempt. You should change your password immediately. ” Mr. Rinehart was in Hawaii at the time. He remembers checking his email at 4 a. m. for messages from East Coast associates. Without thinking much about the notification, he clicked on the “change password” button and half asleep, as best he can remember, he typed in a new password. What he did not know until months later is that he had just given the Russian hackers access to his email account. Hundreds of similar phishing emails were being sent to American political targets, including an identical email sent on March 19 to Mr. Podesta, chairman of the Clinton campaign. Given how many emails Mr. Podesta received through this personal email account, several aides also had access to it, and one of them noticed the warning email, sending it to a computer technician to make sure it was legitimate before anyone clicked on the “change password” button. “This is a legitimate email,” Charles Delavan, a Clinton campaign aide, replied to another of Mr. Podesta’s aides, who had noticed the alert. “John needs to change his password immediately. ” With another click, a decade of emails that Mr. Podesta maintained in his Gmail account  —   a total of about 60, 000  —   were unlocked for the Russian hackers. Mr. Delavan, in an interview, said that his bad advice was a result of a typo: He knew this was a phishing attack, as the campaign was getting dozens of them. He said he had meant to type that it was an “illegitimate” email, an error that he said has plagued him ever since. During this second wave, the hackers also gained access to the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, and then, through a virtual private network connection, to the main computer network of the D. N. C. The F. B. I. observed this surge of activity as well, again reaching out to Mr. Tamene to warn him. Yet Mr. Tamene still saw no reason to be alarmed: He found copies of the phishing emails in the D. N. C. ’s spam filter. But he had no reason, he said, to believe that the computer systems had been infiltrated. One bit of progress had finally been made by the middle of April: The D. N. C. seven months after it had first been warned, finally installed a “robust set of monitoring tools,” Mr. Tamene’s internal memo says. The United States had two decades of warning that Russia’s intelligence agencies were trying to break into America’s most sensitive computer networks. But the Russians have always managed to stay a step ahead. Their first major attack was detected on Oct. 7, 1996, when a computer operator at the Colorado School of Mines discovered some nighttime computer activity he could not explain. The school had a major contract with the Navy, and the operator warned his contacts there. But as happened two decades later at the D. N. C. at first “everyone was unable to connect the dots,” said Thomas Rid, a scholar at King’s College in London who has studied the attack. Investigators gave it a name  —   Moonlight Maze  —   and spent two years, often working day and night, tracing how it hopped from the Navy to the Department of Energy to the Air Force and NASA. In the end, they concluded that the total number of files stolen, if printed and stacked, would be taller than the Washington Monument. Whole weapons designs were flowing out the door, and it was a first taste of what was to come: an escalating campaign of cyberattacks around the world. But for years, the Russians stayed largely out of the headlines, thanks to the Chinese  —   who took bigger risks, and often got caught. They stole the designs for the   fighter jet, corporate secrets for rolling steel, even the blueprints for gas pipelines that supply much of the United States. And during the 2008 presidential election cycle, Chinese intelligence hacked into the campaigns of Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain, making off with internal position papers and communications. But they didn’t publish any of it. The Russians had not gone away, of course. “They were just a lot more stealthy,” said Kevin Mandia, a former Air Force intelligence officer who spent most of his days fighting off Russian cyberattacks before founding Mandiant, a cybersecurity firm that is now a division of FireEye  —   and the company the Clinton campaign brought in to secure its own systems. The Russians were also quicker to turn their attacks to political purposes. A 2007 cyberattack on Estonia, a former Soviet republic that had joined NATO, sent a message that Russia could paralyze the country without invading it. The next year cyberattacks were used during Russia’s war with Georgia. But American officials did not imagine that the Russians would dare try those techniques inside the United States. They were largely focused on preventing what former Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta warned was an approaching “cyber Pearl Harbor”  —   a shutdown of the power grid or cellphone networks. But in 2014 and 2015, a Russian hacking group began systematically targeting the State Department, the White House and the Joint Chiefs of Staff. “Each time, they eventually met with some form of success,” Michael Sulmeyer, a former cyberexpert for the secretary of defense, and Ben Buchanan, now both of the Harvard Cyber Security Project, wrote recently in a    published paper for the Carnegie Endowment. The Russians grew stealthier and stealthier, tricking government computers into sending out data while disguising the electronic “command and control” messages that set off alarms for anyone looking for malicious actions. The State Department was so crippled that it repeatedly closed its systems to throw out the intruders. At one point, officials traveling to Vienna with Secretary of State John Kerry for the Iran nuclear negotiations had to set up commercial Gmail accounts just to communicate with one another and with reporters traveling with them. Mr. Obama was briefed regularly on all this, but he made a decision that many in the White House now regret: He did not name Russians publicly, or issue sanctions. There was always a reason: fear of escalating a cyberwar, and concern that the United States needed Russia’s cooperation in negotiations over Syria. “We’d have all these circular meetings,” one senior State Department official said, “in which everyone agreed you had to push back at the Russians and push back hard. But it didn’t happen. ” So the Russians escalated again  —   breaking into systems not just for espionage, but to publish or broadcast what they found, known as “doxing” in the cyberworld. It was a brazen change in tactics, moving the Russians from espionage to influence operations. In February 2014, they broadcast an intercepted phone call between Victoria Nuland, the assistant secretary of state who handles Russian affairs and has a contentious relationship with Mr. Putin, and Geoffrey Pyatt, the United States ambassador to Ukraine. Ms. Nuland was heard describing a   American effort to broker a deal in Ukraine, then in political turmoil. They were not the only ones on whom the Russians used the    strategy. The Open Society Foundation, run by George Soros, was a major target, and when its documents were released, some turned out to have been altered to make it appear as if the foundation was financing Russian opposition members. Last year, the attacks became more aggressive. Russia hacked a major French television station, frying critical hardware. Around Christmas, it attacked part of the power grid in Ukraine, dropping a portion of the country into darkness, killing backup generators and taking control of generators. In retrospect, it was a warning shot. The attacks “were not fully integrated military operations,” Mr. Sulmeyer said. But they showed an increasing boldness. The day before the White House Correspondents’ Association dinner in April, Ms. Dacey, the D. N. C. ’s chief executive, was preparing for a night of parties when she got an urgent phone call. With the new monitoring system in place, Mr. Tamene had examined administrative logs of the D. N. C. ’s computer system and found something very suspicious: An unauthorized person, with   security status, had gained access to the D. N. C. ’s computers. “Not sure it is related to what the F. B. I. has been noticing,” said one internal D. N. C. email sent on April 29. “The D. N. C. may have been hacked in a serious way this week, with password theft, etc. ” No one knew just how bad the breach was  —   but it was clear that a lot more than a single filing cabinet worth of materials might have been taken. A secret committee was immediately created, including Ms. Dacey, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Brown and Michael Sussmann, a former cybercrimes prosecutor at the Department of Justice who now works at Perkins Coie, the Washington law firm that handles D. N. C. political matters. “Three most important questions,” Mr. Sussmann wrote to his clients the night the   was confirmed. “1) What data was accessed? 2) How was it done? 3) How do we stop it?” Mr. Sussmann instructed his clients not to use D. N. C. email because they had just one opportunity to lock the hackers out  —   an effort that could be foiled if the hackers knew that the D. N. C. was on to them. “You only get one chance to raise the drawbridge,” Mr. Sussmann said. “If the adversaries know you are aware of their presence, they will take steps to burrow in, or erase the logs that show they were present. ” The D. N. C. immediately hired CrowdStrike, a cybersecurity firm, to scan its computers, identify the intruders and build a new computer and telephone system from scratch. Within a day, CrowdStrike confirmed that the intrusion had originated in Russia, Mr. Sussmann said. The work that such companies do is a computer version of   crime scene investigation, with fingerprints, bullet casings and DNA swabs replaced by an electronic trail that can be just as incriminating. And just as police detectives learn to identify the telltale methods of a veteran burglar, so CrowdStrike investigators recognized the distinctive handiwork of Cozy Bear and Fancy Bear. Those are CrowdStrike’s nicknames for the two Russian hacking groups that the firm found at work inside the D. N. C. network. Cozy Bear  —   the group also known as the Dukes or A. P. T. 29, for “advanced persistent threat”  —   may or may not be associated with the F. S. B. the main successor to the   K. G. B. but it is widely believed to be a Russian government operation. It made its first appearance in 2014, said Dmitri Alperovitch, CrowdStrike’s   and chief technology officer. It was Cozy Bear, CrowdStrike concluded, that first penetrated the D. N. C. in the summer of 2015, by sending   emails to a long list of American government agencies, Washington nonprofits and government contractors. Whenever someone clicked on a phishing message, the Russians would enter the network, “exfiltrate” documents of interest and stockpile them for intelligence purposes. “Once they got into the D. N. C. they found the data valuable and decided to continue the operation,” said Mr. Alperovitch, who was born in Russia and moved to the United States as a teenager. Only in March 2016 did Fancy Bear show up  —   first penetrating the computers of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, and then jumping to the D. N. C. investigators believe. Fancy Bear, sometimes called A. P. T. 28 and believed to be directed by the G. R. U. Russia’s military intelligence agency, is an older outfit, tracked by Western investigators for nearly a decade. It was Fancy Bear that got hold of Mr. Podesta’s email. Attribution, as the skill of identifying a cyberattacker is known, is more art than science. It is often impossible to name an attacker with absolute certainty. But over time, by accumulating a reference library of hacking techniques and targets, it is possible to spot repeat offenders. Fancy Bear, for instance, has gone after military and political targets in Ukraine and Georgia, and at NATO installations. That largely rules out cybercriminals and most countries, Mr. Alperovitch said. “There’s no plausible actor that has an interest in all those victims other than Russia,” he said. Another clue: The Russian hacking groups tended to be active during working hours in the Moscow time zone. To their astonishment, Mr. Alperovitch said, CrowdStrike experts found signs that the two Russian hacking groups had not coordinated their attacks. Fancy Bear, apparently not knowing that Cozy Bear had been rummaging in D. N. C. files for months, took many of the same documents. In the six weeks after CrowdStrike’s arrival, in total secrecy, the computer system at the D. N. C. was replaced. For a weekend, email and phones were shut off employees were told it was a system upgrade. All laptops were turned in and the hard drives wiped clean, with the uninfected information on them imaged to new drives. Though D. N. C. officials had learned that the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee had been infected, too, they did not notify their sister organization, which was in the same building, because they were afraid that it would leak. All of this work took place as the bitter contest for the Democratic nomination continued to play out between Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Sanders, and it was already causing a major distraction for Ms. Wasserman Schultz and the D. N. C. ’s chief executive. “This was not a bump in the road  —   bumps in the road happen all the time,” she said in an interview. “Two different Russian spy agencies had hacked into our network and stolen our property. And we did not yet know what they had taken. But we knew they had very broad access to our network. There was a tremendous amount of uncertainty. And it was chilling. ” The D. N. C. executives and their lawyer had their first formal meeting with senior F. B. I. officials in   nine months after the bureau’s first call to the   contractor. Among the early requests at that meeting, according to participants: that the federal government make a quick “attribution” formally blaming actors with ties to Russian government for the attack to make clear that it was not routine hacking but foreign espionage. “You have a presidential election underway here and you know that the Russians have hacked into the D. N. C. ,” Mr. Sussmann said, recalling the message to the F. B. I. “We need to tell the American public that. And soon. ” In   on Mr. Sussmann’s advice, D. N. C. leaders decided to take a bold step. Concerned that word of the hacking might leak, they decided to go public in The Washington Post with the news that the committee had been attacked. That way, they figured, they could get ahead of the story, win a little sympathy from voters for being victimized by Russian hackers and refocus on the campaign. But the very next day, a new, deeply unsettling shock awaited them. Someone calling himself Guccifer 2. 0 appeared on the web, claiming to be the D. N. C. hacker  —   and he posted a confidential committee document detailing Mr. Trump’s record and half a dozen other documents to prove his bona fides. “And it’s just a tiny part of all docs I downloaded from the Democrats networks,” he wrote. Then something more ominous: “The main part of the papers, thousands of files and mails, I gave to WikiLeaks. They will publish them soon. ” It was bad enough that Russian hackers had been spying inside the committee’s network for months. Now the public release of documents had turned a conventional espionage operation into something far more menacing: political sabotage, an unpredictable, uncontrollable menace for Democratic campaigns. Guccifer 2. 0 borrowed the moniker of an earlier hacker, a Romanian who called himself Guccifer and was jailed for breaking into the personal computers of former President George W. Bush, former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and other notables. This new attacker seemed intent on showing that the D. N. C. ’s cyberexperts at CrowdStrike were wrong to blame Russia. Guccifer 2. 0 called himself a “lone hacker” and mocked CrowdStrike for calling the attackers “sophisticated. ” But online investigators quickly undercut his story. On a whim, Lorenzo   a writer for Motherboard, the tech and culture site of Vice, tried to contact Guccifer 2. 0 by direct message on Twitter. “Surprisingly, he answered right away,” Mr.   said. But whoever was on the other end seemed to be mocking him. “I asked him why he did it, and he said he wanted to expose the Illuminati. He called himself a Gucci lover. And he said he was Romanian. ” That gave Mr.   an idea. Using Google Translate, he sent the purported hacker some questions in Romanian. The answers came back in Romanian. But when he was offline, Mr.   checked with a couple of native speakers, who told him Guccifer 2. 0 had apparently been using Google Translate as well  —   and was clearly not the Romanian he claimed to be. Cyberresearchers found other clues pointing to Russia. Microsoft Word documents posted by Guccifer 2. 0 had been edited by someone calling himself, in Russian, Felix Edmundovich  —   an obvious nom de guerre honoring the founder of the Soviet secret police, Felix Edmundovich Dzerzhinsky. Bad links in the texts were marked by warnings in Russian, generated by what was clearly a   version of Word. When Mr.   managed to engage Guccifer 2. 0 over a period of weeks, he found that his interlocutor’s tone and manner changed. “At first he was careless and colloquial. Weeks later, he was curt and more calculating,” he said. “It seemed like a group of people, and a very sloppy attempt to cover up. ” Computer experts drew the same conclusion about DCLeaks. com, a site that sprang up in June, claiming to be the work of “hacktivists” but posting more stolen documents. It, too, seemed to be a clumsy front for the same Russians who had stolen the documents. Notably, the website was registered in April, suggesting that the Russian hacking team planned well in advance to make public what it stole. In addition to what Guccifer 2. 0 published on his site, he provided material directly on request to some bloggers and publications. The steady flow of Guccifer 2. 0 documents constantly undercut Democratic messaging efforts. On July 6, 12 days before the Republican National Convention began in Cleveland, Guccifer released the D. N. C. ’s battle plan and budget for countering it. For Republican operatives, it was insider gold. Then WikiLeaks, a far more established outlet, began to publish the hacked material  —   just as Guccifer 2. 0 had promised. On July 22, three days before the start of the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia, WikiLeaks dumped out 44, 053 D. N. C. emails with 17, 761 attachments. Some of the messages made clear that some D. N. C. officials favored Mrs. Clinton over her progressive challenger, Mr. Sanders. That was no shock Mr. Sanders, after all, had been an independent socialist, not a Democrat, during his long career in Congress, while Mrs. Clinton had been one of the party’s stars for decades. But the emails, some of them crude or insulting, infuriated Sanders delegates as they arrived in Philadelphia. Ms. Wasserman Schultz resigned under pressure on the eve of the convention where she had planned to preside. Mr. Trump, by now the Republican nominee, expressed delight at the continuing jolts to his opponent, and he began to use Twitter and his stump speeches to highlight the WikiLeaks releases. On July 25, he sent out a lighthearted tweet: “The new joke in town,” he wrote, “is that Russia leaked the disastrous D. N. C.   which should never have been written (stupid) because Putin likes me. ” But WikiLeaks was far from finished. On Oct. 7, a month before the election, the site began the serial publication of thousands of private emails to and from Mr. Podesta, Mrs. Clinton’s campaign manager. The same day, the United States formally accused the Russian government of being behind the hackings, in a joint statement by the director of national intelligence and the Department of Homeland Security, and Mr. Trump suffered his worst blow to date, with the release of a recording in which he bragged about sexually assaulting women. The Podesta emails were nowhere near as sensational as the Trump video. But, released by WikiLeaks day after day over the last month of the campaign, they provided material for countless news reports. They disclosed the contents of Mrs. Clinton’s speeches to large banks, which she had refused to release. They exposed tensions inside the campaign, including disagreements over donations to the Clinton Foundation that staff members thought might look bad for the candidate and Ms. Tanden’s complaint that Mrs. Clinton’s instincts were “suboptimal. ” “I was just mortified,” Ms. Tanden said in an interview. Her emails were released on the eve of one of the presidential debates, she recalled. “I put my hands over my head and said, ‘I can’t believe this is happening to me. ’” Though she had regularly appeared on television to support Mrs. Clinton, she canceled her appearances because all the questions were about what she had said in the emails. Ms. Tanden, like other Democrats whose messages became public, said it was obvious to her that WikiLeaks was trying its best to damage the Clinton campaign. “If you care about transparency, you put all the emails out at once,” she said. “But they wanted to hurt her. So they put them out 1, 800 to 3, 000 a day. ” The Trump campaign knew in advance about WikiLeaks’ plans. Days before the Podesta email release began, Roger Stone, a Republican operative working with the Trump campaign, sent out an excited tweet about what was coming. But in an interview, Mr. Stone said he had no role in the leaks he had just heard from an American with ties to WikiLeaks that damning emails were coming. Julian Assange, the WikiLeaks founder and editor, has resisted the conclusion that his site became a   for Russian hackers working for Mr. Putin’s government or that he was deliberately trying to undermine Mrs. Clinton’s candidacy. But the evidence on both counts appears compelling. In a series of email exchanges, Mr. Assange refused to say anything about WikiLeaks’ source for the hacked material. He denied that he had made his animus toward Mrs. Clinton clear in public statements (“False. But what is this? Junior high? ”) or that the site had timed the releases for maximum negative effect on her campaign. “WikiLeaks makes its decisions based on newsworthiness, including for its recent epic scoops,” he wrote. Mr. Assange disputed the conclusion of the Oct. 7 statement from the intelligence agencies that the leaks were “intended to interfere with the U. S. election process. ” “This is false,” he wrote. “As the disclosing party we know that this was not the intent. Publishers publishing newsworthy information during an election is part of a free election. ” But asked whether he believed the leaks were one reason for Mr. Trump’s election, Mr. Assange seemed happy to take credit. “Americans extensively engaged with our publications,” he wrote. “According to Facebook statistics WikiLeaks was the most referenced political topic during October. ” Though Mr. Assange did not say so, WikiLeaks’ best defense may be the conduct of the mainstream American media. Every major publication, including The Times, published multiple stories citing the D. N. C. and Podesta emails posted by WikiLeaks, becoming a de facto instrument of Russian intelligence. Mr. Putin, a student of martial arts, had turned two institutions at the core of American democracy  —   political campaigns and independent media  —   to his own ends. The media’s appetite for the hacked material, and its focus on the gossipy content instead of the Russian source, disturbed some of those whose personal emails were being reposted across the web. “What was really surprising to me?” Ms. Tanden said. “I could not believe that reporters were covering it. ” Inside the White House, as Mr. Obama’s advisers debated their response, their conversation turned to North Korea. In late 2014, hackers working for Kim   the North’s young and unpredictable leader, had carried out a   attack on Sony Pictures Entertainment intended to stop the Christmastime release of a comedy about a C. I. A. plot to kill Mr. Kim. In that case, embarrassing emails had also been released. But the real damage was done to Sony’s own systems: More than 70 percent of its computers melted down when a particularly virulent form of malware was released. Within weeks, intelligence agencies traced the attack back to the North and its leadership. Mr. Obama called North Korea out in public, and issued some    sanctions. The Chinese even cooperated, briefly cutting off the North’s internet connections. As the first Situation Room meetings on the Russian hacking began in July, “it was clear that Russia was going to be a much more complicated case,” said one participant. The Russians clearly had a more sophisticated understanding of American politics, and they were masters of “kompromat,” their term for compromising information. But a formal “attribution report” still had not been forwarded to the president. “It took forever,” one senior administration official said, complaining about the pace at which the intelligence assessments moved through the system. In August a group that called itself the “Shadow Brokers” published a set of software tools that looked like what the N. S. A. uses to break into foreign computer networks and install “implants,” malware that can be used for surveillance or attack. The code came from the Tailored Access Operations unit of the N. S. A. a secretive group that mastered the arts of surveillance and cyberwar. The assumption  —   still unproved  —   was that the code was put out in the open by the Russians as a warning: Retaliate for the D. N. C. and there are a lot more secrets, from the hackings of the State Department, the White House and the Pentagon, that might be spilled as well. One senior official compared it to the scene in “The Godfather” where the head of a favorite horse is left in a bed, as a warning. The N. S. A. said nothing. But by late August, Admiral Rogers, its director, was pressing for a more muscular response to the Russians. In his role as director of the Pentagon’s Cyber Command, he proposed a series of potential  . While officials will not discuss them in detail, the possible counterstrikes reportedly included operations that would turn the tables on Mr. Putin, exposing his financial links to Russia’s oligarchs, and punching holes in the Russian internet to allow dissidents to get their message out. Pentagon officials judged the measures too unsubtle and ordered up their own set of options. But in the end, none of those were formally presented to the president. In a series of “deputies meetings” run by Avril Haines, the deputy national security adviser and a former deputy director of the C. I. A. several officials warned that an overreaction by the administration would play into Mr. Putin’s hands. “If we went to Defcon 4,” one frequent participant in Ms. Haines’s meetings said, using a phrase from the Cold War days of warnings of war, “we would be saying to the public that we didn’t have confidence in the integrity of our voting system. ” Even something seemingly straightforward  —   using the president’s executive powers, bolstered after the Sony incident, to place economic and travel sanctions on cyberattackers  —   seemed too risky. “No one was all that eager to impose costs before Election Day,” said another participant in the classified meeting. “Any retaliatory measures were seen through the prism of what would happen on Election Day. ” Instead, when Mr. Obama’s national security team reconvened after summer vacation, the focus turned to a crash effort to secure the nation’s voting machines and   rolls from hacking. The scenario they discussed most frequently  —   one that turned out not to be an issue  —   was a narrow vote in favor of Mrs. Clinton, followed by a declaration by Mr. Trump that the vote was “rigged” and more leaks intended to undercut her legitimacy. Donna Brazile, the interim chairwoman of the D. N. C. became increasingly frustrated as the clock continued to run down on the presidential election  —   and still there was no broad public condemnation by the White House, or Republican Party leaders, of the attack as an act of foreign espionage. Ms. Brazile even reached out to Reince Priebus, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, urging him twice in private conversations and in a letter to join her in condemning the attacks  —   an offer he declined to take up. “We just kept hearing the government would respond, the government would respond,” she said. “Once upon a time, if a foreign government interfered with our election we would respond as a nation, not as a political party. ” But Mr. Obama did decide that he would deliver a warning to Mr. Putin in person at a Group of 20 summit meeting in Hangzhou, China, the last time they would be in the same place while Mr. Obama was still in office. When the two men met for a tense   Mr. Obama explicitly warned Mr. Putin of a strong American response if there was continued effort to influence the election or manipulate the vote, according to White House officials who were not present for the    meeting. Later that day, Mr. Obama made a rare reference to America’s own offensive cybercapacity, which he has almost never talked about. “Frankly, both offensively and defensively, we have more capacity,” he told reporters. But when it came time to make a public assertion of Russia’s role in early October, it was made in a written statement from the director of national intelligence and the secretary of homeland security. It was far less dramatic than the president’s appearance in the press room two years before to directly accuse the North Koreans of attacking Sony. The reference in the statement to hackings on “political organizations,” officials now say, encompassed a hacking on data stored by the Republicans as well. Two senior officials say the forensic evidence was accompanied by “human and technical” sources in Russia, which appears to mean that the United States’ implants or taps in Russian computer and phone networks helped confirm the country’s role. But that may not be known for decades, until the secrets are declassified. A week later Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. was sent out to transmit a public warning to Mr. Putin: The United States will retaliate “at the time of our choosing. And under the circumstances that have the greatest impact. ” Later, after Mr. Biden said he was not concerned that Russia could “fundamentally alter the election,” he was asked whether the American public would know if the message to Mr. Putin had been sent. “Hope not,” Mr. Biden responded. Some of his former colleagues think that was the wrong answer. An American counterstrike, said Michael Morell, the former deputy director of the C. I. A. under Mr. Obama, has “got to be overt. It needs to be seen. ” A covert response would significantly limit the deterrence effect, he added. “If you can’t see it, it’s not going to deter the Chinese and North Koreans and Iranians and others. ” The Obama administration says it still has more than 30 days to do exactly that. As the year draws to a close, it now seems possible that there will be multiple investigations of the Russian hacking  —   the intelligence review Mr. Obama has ordered completed by Jan. 20, the day he leaves office, and one or more congressional inquiries. They will wrestle with, among other things, Mr. Putin’s motive. Did he seek to mar the brand of American democracy, to forestall   activism for both Russians and their neighbors? Or to weaken the next American president, since presumably Mr. Putin had no reason to doubt American forecasts that Mrs. Clinton would win easily? Or was it, as the C. I. A. concluded last month, a deliberate attempt to elect Mr. Trump? In fact, the Russian    scheme accomplished all three goals. What seems clear is that Russian hacking, given its success, is not going to stop. Two weeks ago, the German intelligence chief, Bruno Kahl, warned that Russia might target elections in Germany next year. “The perpetrators have an interest to delegitimize the democratic process as such,” Mr. Kahl said. Now, he added, “Europe is in the focus of these attempts of disturbance, and Germany to a particularly great extent. ” But Russia has by no means forgotten its American target. On the day after the presidential election, the cybersecurity company Volexity reported five new waves of phishing emails, evidently from Cozy Bear, aimed at think tanks and nonprofits in the United States. One of them purported to be from Harvard University, attaching a fake paper. Its title: “Why American Elections Are Flawed. ”"
90,17389,Trump Said ‘Torture Works.’ An Echo Is Feared Worldwide. - The New York Times,New York Times,James Risen and Sheri Fink,2017-01-06,2017.0,1.0,,"When the United Nations’ top   official tried to inspect an infamous prison in Gambia two years ago, officials there denied him access. So he protested all the way up the country’s chain of command. In a tense meeting with members of the cabinet of the country’s autocratic ruler, the United Nations official, Juan E. Méndez, was again denied, this time with a jeering dismissal. “They said, ‘Why don’t you go to Guantánamo instead,’” recalled Mr. Mendez, a former United Nations special rapporteur on torture. In Bahrain, officials were a little more subtle, but the message was the same, as they twice canceled prison inspection visits. “They said we face the same threats to national security as other countries face,” Mr. Mendez said. “It was clear they were referring to the United States, and they didn’t feel that they needed to give me access. ” Now, after   Donald J. Trump’s campaign vows to reinstate the sort of torture used in the   war on terrorism  —   and to fill the Guantánamo Bay prison with “some bad dudes”  —   human rights experts fear that authoritarian regimes around the world will see it as another green light to carry out their own abuses. A return to such “enhanced interrogation”  —   and even to techniques that Mr. Trump has pledged will be “much worse”  —   would also send a powerful message just as nations around the world have begun to examine their own past abuses to ensure that they will not be repeated. “Sometimes we see progress, and then we see ” said Victor   the   of the International Rehabilitation Council for Torture Victims, a   umbrella organization for   groups. “When the U. S. was engaging in torture, that created an enormous   of the pendulum,” he added. “There were a lot of officials in other countries during the Bush administration who were saying, ‘The Americans are doing it, so why can’t we?’ Now, with Trump saying, ‘I will bring a hell of a lot worse than waterboarding,’ you can imagine how far we could go backwards. ” Nils Melzer, who succeeded Mr. Mendez as the United Nations’ special rapporteur on torture in November, warned that if the Trump administration revived the use of torture, the consequences around the world “would be catastrophic. ” A fragile consensus against torture, said José Miguel Vivanco, the regional director for the Americas for Human Rights Watch, could be shattered “when you have the White House openly advocating for torture. ” During the campaign, Mr. Trump declared that “torture works,” and he vowed to “immediately” reinstate techniques like waterboarding because “we have to beat the savages” of the Islamic State, who “deserve” such treatment even if it is fruitless. Since the election, Mr. Trump has indicated that he might be reconsidering his position, citing the firm stance against torture by James N. Mattis, his Pentagon nominee. In an interview with The New York Times in November, Mr. Trump said that he was “surprised” when Mr. Mattis told him that he opposed torture and instead favored more humane interrogations of prisoners based on rapport building. But Mr. Trump did not close the door entirely. If Americans feel strongly about bringing back waterboarding and other tactics, he said, “I would be guided by that. ” Nora Sveaass, a psychologist at the University of Oslo and a former member of the United Nations Committee Against Torture, warned that if Mr. Trump revived the use of torture by the United States, it would have a ripple effect around the globe. “The U. S. is a very strong voice,” Ms. Sveaass said. “It’s just like putting a bomb into all of those major principles  —   the absolute prohibition on torture the absolute obligation to provide redress and justice to victims of torture, including rehabilitation the obligation to investigate and hold people to account,” she added. “If one country such as the U. S. openly torpedoes those principles, you can just forget about asking for compliance from states already challenging the absolute prohibition. ” The signal from Mr. Trump that torture is acceptable again comes just as countries from Argentina to Tunisia, either through courts or special truth commissions, are engaged in tentative efforts to hold themselves accountable for past conduct. In Argentina, Omar Graffigna, the    former chief of the country’s air force, was sentenced to prison in September for the 1978 kidnapping and torture of two   activists, Patricia Roisinblit and José Manuel Pérez Rojo. The prosecution of Mr. Graffigna was just one in a series of old cases that have been brought into the courts this year in Argentina, as the nation comes to grips with the legacy of its “dirty war” of the 1970s and early 1980s. In Tunisia, a new Truth and Dignity Commission held its first hearings in November, allowing torture victims to tell their harrowing stories before a national television audience. The commission was created to investigate torture and other human rights violations dating to 1955, primarily by the regime of President Zine   Ben Ali, who was deposed during the Arab Spring in 2011. And in December, Bolivia’s legislature voted to create a truth commission to investigate torture, murders and other crimes committed by a series of authoritarian regimes from 1964 to 1982. Even in countries that have not conducted such   investigations, new     organizations have begun to take root, and those groups are trying to make it more difficult for their governments to continue to engage in torture with secrecy and impunity. Samuel Herbert Nsubuga, the chief executive of the African Center for Treatment and Rehabilitation of Torture Victims, based in Uganda, said   legislation that the country passed in 2012 had still not been put into effect. When the law finally takes effect, “our challenge will be to bring some people to trial in Uganda for torture,” he said. In the meantime, his group has enlisted doctors and psychologists to provide medical help and therapy to torture victims, as well as lawyers to provide legal advice. But the moves toward examining past abuses are so far limited to relatively small nations or countries where the focus is on historical events rather than the current use of torture. The inquiries are also often being conducted in the face of strong resistance from top government officials, who oppose aggressive investigations even of past crimes. Those modest efforts could face sharp setbacks if Mr. Trump brings back banned practices. “I am afraid that Trump’s government will question the basic values of the international order, and torturing people will be justified,” said Carlos Jibaja, a psychologist with CAPS, a group in Lima, Peru, that helps victims of torture. At the same time, Mr. Trump’s advocacy of torture may encourage some major countries, like Russia and the Philippines, to be even more open and aggressive in their use of torture. Olga Sadovskaya, the vice chairwoman of the Committee Against Torture, a human rights group in Russia, said that torture was already common in the country. She noted that Russian prison and police officials routinely used torture tactics with cruel nicknames, such as the “President Putin,” which involves attaching wires from an office telephone to a victim’s body and then running electric current through it. The police like that tactic, she said, because it does not leave marks. Edeliza Hernandez, the executive director of the Medical Action Group in the Philippines, an organization that documents cases of torture and provides treatment and rehabilitation, estimated that there were 200 political prisoners in detention centers in the country, and said that most of them had been tortured. “The government has soldiers watch us while we inspect prisoners,” she said. Mr. Melzer, the United Nations official, warned that if Mr. Trump followed through on his pledges, more countries would follow his lead and get back into the torture business. “What kind of message would that be to the world?” Mr. Melzer asked. “It couldn’t be worse. What happens to the role of the United States as an example in the world, and what would that mean for the policies of other states? If the United States does it, those other countries will know they can get away with it. The last thing the world needs is a U. S. president legitimizing this. ”"
91,17390,Republicans’ 4-Step Plan to Repeal the Affordable Care Act - The New York Times,New York Times,Robert Pear,2017-01-06,2017.0,1.0,,"WASHINGTON  —   Vice   Mike Pence and the top Republicans in Congress made clear on Wednesday, more powerfully and explicitly than ever, that they are dead serious about repealing the Affordable Care Act. How they can uproot a law deeply embedded in the nation’s health care system without hurting some of the 20 million people who have gained coverage through it is not clear. Nor is it yet evident that millions of Americans with   medical conditions will be fully protected against disruptions in their health coverage. But a determined Republican president and Congress can gut the Affordable Care Act, and do it quickly: a    health care revolution in reverse that would undo many of the changes made since the law was signed by President Obama in March 2010. The Senate intends to pass a budget resolution next week that would shield repeal legislation from a Democratic filibuster. If the Senate completes its action, House Republican leaders hope that they, too, can approve a version of the budget resolution next week. Whether they can meet that goal is unclear. The resolution contains seemingly innocuous language, instructing four committees that control health care policy  —   two in the Senate, two in the House  —   to draft legislation within their jurisdiction that would cut at least $1 billion from the deficit over 10 years. But that language has real teeth. The legislation produced to meet those instructions can pass the Senate with a simple majority  —   51 votes if all senators are present  —   obliterating the power of the Democratic minority to block it. Those four committees would have just a few weeks, until Jan. 27, to produce legislation repealing major provisions of the Affordable Care Act. House Republicans have some practice at this, because they have voted more than 60 times since 2011 to repeal some or all of the law. The budget blueprint will guide Congress but will not be presented to the president for a signature or veto. The committees  —   House Energy and Commerce, House Ways and Means, Senate Finance, and Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions  —   will quickly assemble legislation intended to eviscerate the health care law. The repeal legislation will be in the form of a reconciliation bill, authorized by the Congressional Budget Act of 1974. Such bills can be adopted under special   procedures. But Senate rules generally bar the use of those procedures for measures that have no effect on spending or revenue. So the legislation, as now conceived, would probably leave the most popular provisions of the health law intact, such as the prohibition on insurers’ denying coverage to people with   conditions. Instead, the legislation would: ■ Eliminate the tax penalties imposed on people who go without insurance and on larger employers who do not offer coverage to employees. ■ Eliminate tens of billions of dollars provided each year to states that have expanded eligibility for Medicaid. ■ Repeal subsidies for private health insurance coverage obtained through the public marketplaces known as exchanges. It could also repeal some of the taxes and fees that help pay for the expansion of coverage under the Affordable Care Act. But some Republicans have indicated that they may want to use some of that revenue for their    plan to replace the health care law. The 2010 law imposed taxes and fees on certain   people and on health insurers and manufacturers of   prescription drugs and medical devices, among others. Republicans have not said for sure which taxes they will scrap and which they may keep. Republicans say they will delay the effective date of their repeal bill to avoid disrupting coverage and to provide time for them to develop alternatives to Mr. Obama’s law. They disagree over how long the delay should last, with two to four years being mentioned as possibilities. Within days of taking office,   Donald J. Trump plans to announce executive actions on health care. Some may undo Obama administration policies. Others will be meant to stabilize health insurance markets and prevent them from collapsing in a vast sea of uncertainty. “We are working on a series of executive orders that the   will put into effect to ensure that there is an orderly transition, during the period after we repeal Obamacare, to a   health care economy,” Mr. Pence said at the Capitol on Wednesday. He did not provide details, and Trump transition aides said they had no information about the executive orders. But some options are apparent. The federal government could continue providing financial assistance to insurance companies to protect them against financial losses and to prevent consumers’ premiums from soaring more than they have in the last few years. Even as they move full speed toward gutting the existing health law, Republicans are scrambling to find a replacement. At the moment, they have no consensus. Mr. Pence said on Wednesday that the replacement would probably encourage greater use of personal health savings accounts and make it easier for carriers to sell insurance across state lines. Also, he said, it would encourage small businesses to band together and buy insurance through “association health plans” sponsored by business and professional organizations. Some type of subsidy or tax credit for consumers, to help defray the cost of premiums, is also likely. States would have more authority to set insurance standards, and the federal government would have less. Mr. Trump has also endorsed the idea of   “  pools” for people with   conditions who would otherwise have difficulty finding affordable coverage. Many experts have said that repealing the health law without a clear plan to replace it could create havoc in insurance markets. Doctors, hospitals and insurance companies do not know what to expect. Without an effective requirement for people to carry insurance, and without subsidies to buy it, supporters of the law say many healthy people would go without coverage, knowing they could obtain it if they became ill and needed it. Democrats in Congress say they will do everything they can to thwart Republican efforts to dismantle the Affordable Care Act. They plan to dramatize their case by publicizing the experiences of people whose lives have been saved or improved by the law. In the Senate next week, Democrats will demand votes intended to put Republicans on record against proposals that could protect consumers. Defenders of the law also hope to mobilize groups like the American Cancer Society and the American Heart Association to speak up for patients. The Senate Democratic leader, Chuck Schumer of New York, and the House Democratic leader, Nancy Pelosi of California, are encouraging their colleagues to organize rallies around the country on Jan. 15 to oppose the Republicans’ health care agenda. And to buttress their case, Democrats are compiling statistics from the White House and from researchers at   groups like the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, the Commonwealth Fund and the Urban Institute, which warn of catastrophic consequences if the law is repealed."
93,17392,Trump Takes on Democrats and Health Law in New Twitter Blitz - The New York Times,New York Times,Julie Hirschfeld Davis,2017-01-06,2017.0,1.0,,"WASHINGTON  —     Donald J. Trump lashed out at Democrats on Thursday over their efforts to preserve President Obama’s health care coverage law, insulting their top legislative leader and denouncing the measure as a “lie” as he called for a less expensive and more effective system. “The Democrats, lead by head clown Chuck Schumer, know how bad ObamaCare is and what a mess they are in,” Mr. Trump wrote in the first of three   posts on Twitter. The posts arrived the day after Mr. Obama huddled with Democrats on Capitol Hill to strategize over protecting the Affordable Care Act and Vice   Mike Pence met with Republicans about how to gut it. “Instead of working to fix it, they do the typical political thing and BLAME,” Mr. Trump continued on Twitter. “The fact is ObamaCare was a lie from the beginning. ‘Keep you doctor, keep your plan! ’” He said it was time for Republicans and Democrats to work together on a “plan that really works  —   much less expensive  FAR BETTER!” The messages could be seen as Mr. Trump’s latest attempt to seize the narrative of the day and deflect attention from a story line less favorable to him. Senate Republicans convened a hearing on Thursday to examine intelligence that the Russians engaged in computer hacking to affect the outcome of the presidential campaign. Mr. Trump has disputed that the Russians were to blame, and he has criticized American intelligence agencies for their work. Mr. Trump also used the social media platform to push back against criticism he attracted on Wednesday for siding with Julian Assange, the WikiLeaks founder, over United States intelligence officials in rejecting Russian responsibility for the hacking. Mr. Trump’s latest Twitter salvo also appeared to be an attempt to mount a political defense of his bid to scrap the law that has provided health care coverage to tens of millions of Americans, as Democrats work to make that effort politically toxic. Mr. Schumer responded later Thursday, saying the   was in a “difficult spot” on the issue. “Instead of calling names,” Mr. Schumer said at a news conference on Capitol Hill, Mr. Trump “should roll up his sleeves and show us a replacement plan that will cover the 20 million Americans who gained coverage, that will cover students or   students, 21 to 26, who want to stay on their parents’ plan, that will show how we cover people with   conditions. ” On Wednesday, the   appeared to acknowledge the challenges of doing so without being saddled by voters with a share of blame for the shortcomings of the measure. “Republicans must be careful in that the Dems own the failed ObamaCare disaster, with its poor coverage and massive premium increases,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter on Wednesday, adding in a separate post: “Don’t let the Schumer clowns out of this web. ” His comments on Thursday came as Mr. Obama took a subtle swipe at the   in a farewell letter, without naming him, writing that Americans never voted for rolling back the health care measure. “What won’t help is taking health care away from 30 million Americans, most of them white and working class denying overtime pay to workers, most of whom have more than earned it or privatizing Medicare and Social Security and letting Wall Street regulate itself again  —   none of which   Americans voted for,” Mr. Obama said in the   letter. As the debate unfolded in Washington, Mr. Trump on Thursday spent more than an hour sitting for a deposition in New York as part of his legal feud with the renowned chef José Andres, whom Mr. Trump is suing for pulling out of a plan to open a new restaurant in his luxury hotel near the White House. Mr. Andres, who is   has said he canceled the project because of Mr. Trump’s disparaging rhetoric about Mexican immigrants during his presidential campaign. Alan Garten, general counsel for the Trump Organization, called the case “fairly straightforward. ” “In short, the parties entered into a valid and enforceable lease, which the tenant clearly breached by walking out and failing to perform its obligations, thereby entitling the landlord to recover damages in the form of unpaid rent, cost of build out, lost profits and other expenses,” Mr. Garten said in a statement."
95,17394,Corzine Reaches $5 Million Settlement With Regulators in MF Global Case - The New York Times,New York Times,Ben Protess,2017-01-06,2017.0,1.0,,"After more than five years of investigations and negotiations, the curious case of MF Global is finally closed. On Thursday, federal regulators announced a $5 million settlement with Jon S. Corzine, who ran MF Global when it collapsed into bankruptcy in 2011 and lost more than $1 billion in customer money. The settlement, reached unanimously at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission in the waning days of the Obama administration and approved by a federal judge this week, caps a   spectacle that derailed Mr. Corzine’s career and spurred a number of congressional, criminal and regulatory investigations. The regulatory case arose in 2013, when the commodities agency sued Mr. Corzine, a Democratic former New Jersey senator and governor, saying he had failed to “diligently supervise” the firm as it jeopardized the clients’ accounts. The agency did not directly link Mr. Corzine, 70, to the missing money, but it did accuse a   employee in Chicago, Edith O’Brien, of “aiding and abetting” the misuse of customer money, saying she allowed it to be used to plug holes in MF Global’s own accounts. To resolve the case, Mr. Corzine has agreed to pay the $5 million penalty out of his own pocket. While the sum is manageable for someone who reaped many millions of dollars as a top Goldman Sachs executive before pursuing a career in politics, it is an unusual step. In other federal cases involving Wall Street, insurance money often covers settlement amounts, sparing the executives themselves. While Mr. Corzine was willing to settle the case, Ms. O’Brien nearly took it to trial. But in recent weeks she, too, agreed to settle, striking a deal that has imposed a $500, 000 penalty and an   prohibition on her associating with a futures broker like MF Global. Mr. Corzine agreed to a harsher undertaking  —   accepting a lifetime prohibition from leading a futures broker or registering with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. In effect, that means he will not personally trade other people’s money in the futures industry, except for smaller trades under certain threshold limits. Mr. Corzine, in theory, could still operate a hedge fund that does futures trading, and he could trade for his own account. The settlement also does not prevent him from trading in other markets. “This resolution demonstrates the importance that the commission attaches to customer protection, which has long been a hallmark of our mission,” Aitan Goelman, the head of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission enforcement division, said in a statement announcing the settlement. The settlements, the contours of which were reported by The New York Times in October, bring a   close to the MF Global ordeal. The criminal investigations ended with the conclusion that MF Global employees did not intentionally break the law. Just last year, Mr. Corzine settled much of the private MF Global litigation. And a trustee has long recovered the missing customer money (much of it wound up at MF Global’s banks and clearinghouses) and made whole the farmers and hedge funds whose accounts were raided in the firm’s final days. In a statement on Thursday, Mr. Corzine said, “As the C. E. O. of MF Global in 2011, I have accepted responsibility for its failure, and I deeply regret the impact it had on customers, employees, shareholders and others. ” He added: “I remain gratified that several years ago all customer money was recovered and returned to MF Global customers. ” His lawyer, Andrew J. Levander, said: “Mr. Corzine has given more than 10 days of testimony under oath, and these matters have been investigated exhaustively by two U. S. attorney’s offices, the F. B. I. the S. E. C. the C. F. T. C. Finra and Congress. ” (Finra is the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.) And yet, Mr. Levander said, “None of these investigations have led to allegations that Mr. Corzine engaged in any kind of intentional misconduct or fraud, or that he was at any time not truthful in his many hours of testimony. ” The case also concludes a   political challenge for the commodities agency, which came under fire for not preventing a breach of customer money at a firm it regulated. Compounding the pressure, Mr. Corzine was a sensitive target, a prominent Democrat who has been a confidant of leaders in Washington and on Wall Street. Against that backdrop, the agency extracted the $5 million payout from Mr. Corzine, a sum far greater than what it could have expected to win if he had been found liable at trial. During negotiations with Mr. Corzine last year, the commission also strengthened aspects of the deal after some of the agency’s commissioners questioned it, The New York Times reported at the time. The case against Mr. Corzine was among the agency’s biggest enforcement actions in the Obama administration. And after MF Global’s demise, on Halloween in 2011, the commodities agency used the episode to tighten the rules for protecting customer money. The disappearance of the money from MF Global unnerved the futures industry and raised broader concerns about the safety of customer funds across Wall Street. Further review showed that MF Global’s financial straits left it vulnerable to a breach. Mr. Corzine joined MF Global as chief executive and chairman in 2010 after the firm had lost money in each of the previous three years. In hopes of returning the firm to profitability  —   and perhaps transforming it into a miniature Goldman Sachs  —   Mr. Corzine placed a large wager on European sovereign debt at a time when investors feared defaults in the eurozone. Although his bet ultimately would have been profitable for MF Global, and the European bonds paid out for other firms that bought the debt, it was not enough to save the firm from unrelated woes. MF Global’s auditor, for example, made the firm write down the value of a significant future tax benefit, a move that appeared to unnerve MF Global’s investors as well as ratings agencies. And after a series of ratings downgrades, the firm started to unravel. In MF Global’s final days, it overdrew an account at JPMorgan Chase, one of its banks, and scrambled to patch that hole. That is when the improper transfers of customer money accelerated, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s complaint. Minutes after learning of the overdrawn account, Mr. Corzine told Ms. O’Brien that meeting the bank’s demands was “the most important thing” she could get “done that day. ” Ultimately, in the chaos and confusion of those final days, customer money was transferred to JPMorgan. And yet, Mr. Corzine was not accused of instructing Ms. O’Brien to use customer money for this purpose. According to court records submitted by his lawyers, Mr. Corzine was not told that the firm was at risk of violating the rules until the eve of the bankruptcy, after the breach had happened. In an email, Ms. O’Brien told Mr. Corzine that the transfer to JPMorgan was a “house wire,” meaning it came from the firm’s accounts. In the years since, Mr. Corzine has visited Central America for a humanitarian project and has traded with his own money. His philanthropic efforts have included working with Covenant House, a nonprofit focused on helping homeless children. “With this matter resolved,” he said, “I am eager to move forward and plan to spend my time focused on issues that have always been important in my life: my family, community and philanthropic causes, and markets. ”"
96,17395,Sears Agrees to Sell Craftsman to Stanley Black &amp Decker to Raise Cash - The New York Times,New York Times,Michael J. de la Merced,2017-01-06,2017.0,1.0,,"The question from the analyst on Thursday was delicate enough. In agreeing to buy the Craftsman tool brand from Sears Holdings, how would Stanley Black  Decker protect itself from legal issues that could arise at the seller down the line? But the response from Stanley Black  Decker’s chief executive, James M. Loree, acknowledged a concern that many on the conference call were likely to have harbored: that Sears could be forced to file for bankruptcy protection someday. “We expect to get this approved before there is any indication whatsoever that there would be any restructuring of that nature from Sears,” Mr. Loree said, adding that he believed such a move was not imminent. The sale of Craftsman, valued at more than $775 million, was meant to prevent that day of reckoning by raising   cash for Sears. For Sears, selling one of its classic brands  —   one it created nearly a century ago  —   is the latest move to bolster its balance sheet during a prolonged sales slump. Edward S. Lampert, the chairman and chief executive of Sears, has struggled for years to find  ways to help the company, as much through esoteric financial maneuvers as through operational fixes. These have been tough times for retailers. Macy’s and Kohl’s said this week that their holiday sales were weaker than expected. Macy’s also announced plans to cut more than 10, 000 jobs and close 100 stores. Sears also suffered during the season, with   sales at its Sears and Kmart units down at least 12 percent. Sears has been in trouble far longer. Under Mr. Lampert, who is also a hedge fund manager, Sears has consistently lagged behind its peers, as analysts said, pointing to underinvestment in stores and slumping sales. Last September, analysts at Moody’s estimated that the company’s negative cash flow for its 2016 fiscal year would be $1. 5 billion. As of Oct. 29, Sears had $258 million in cash and equivalents on hand, compared with $3. 1 billion in   debt, the company said. Its market value Thursday morning, by comparison, was $1. 2 billion, even with a jump in its stock price after the Craftsman news. Sears shares surged as much as 8 percent on Thursday, before ending up 0. 3 percent on a day when some retail stocks tumbled. Sears has long been dogged by predictions that it would eventually be forced into bankruptcy. But on Thursday, the company listed its latest initiatives for shoring up its cash position, including closing 150 more stores and raising up to $1 billion through a $500 million loan backed by its real estate and a previously announced loan from Mr. Lampert’s hedge fund. “We are taking strong, decisive actions today to stabilize the company and improve our financial flexibility in what remains a challenging retail environment,” Mr. Lampert, the company’s biggest shareholder, said in a statement. Stanley Black  Decker will be able to sell Craftsman tools in even more outlets. Today, only 10 percent of the product lineup is sold outside Sears stores. “Craftsman is a legendary American brand,” Mr. Loree said in a statement. “This agreement represents a significant opportunity to grow the market. ” Reaching the deal took months, as Mr. Loree acknowledged on the analyst call. Last spring, Sears announced that it had hired the banks Citigroup and LionTree as advisers to explore the sale of some of its   brands, including Craftsman, DieHard and Kenmore, to raise money. Stanley Black  Decker was one of several dozens of companies approached during the summer about bidding on the tool business. But after the company and its bankers at Deutsche Bank spent time devising a potential takeover bid, Stanley Black  Decker turned its eyes toward buying Newell Brands’ tool business, a deal announced in October. By late fall, however, Sears returned to ask if Stanley Black  Decker would reconsider a bid for Craftsman. Under the deal, Stanley Black  Decker will pay $525 million when the transaction closes, which is expected to occur by   and an additional $250 million at the end of the third year after closing. Sears will also collect a percentage of new Craftsman sales for 15 years after the deal closes. The transaction is now valued at $900 million. “We literally spent months putting this transaction together and to cover each other’s needs and manage the risk profile for both parties,” Mr. Loree told analysts."
98,17397,Record 2016 for U.S. Auto Industry Long Road Back May Be at End - The New York Times,New York Times,Bill Vlasic,2017-01-05,2017.0,1.0,,"DETROIT  —   Unexpectedly strong sales of new vehicles in the United States in December propelled the industry to another record figure in 2016: 17. 55 million sold. That is the good news. The bad news, though, is that the late push to beat the previous record, 17. 47 million vehicles sold in 2015, came at a steep cost, as companies piled on higher sales incentives to lure consumers to their showrooms. And with the American market tilting more than ever toward sales of pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles, companies are cutting production of passenger cars to reduce big inventories of   models. As a result, there is little expectation that the sales will continue on this upward trajectory  —   at least not without cutting deep into profits. That means the numbers released Wednesday could be the   mark for the industry’s impressive comeback from the depths of the recession, when annual sales fell below 11 million vehicles and General Motors and Chrysler needed government bailouts to survive. Adding to the challenge is the potential for major changes in federal regulatory and trade policies by the Trump administration, setting up an uncertain year for an industry that has been barreling along. “One of the problems with predicting 2017 is it is the year of unknowns,” said Michelle Krebs, an analyst with the   site Autotrader. “We are hearing a lot of different things about border tariffs and regulatory policies, but we don’t know what the whole picture looks like. ” Most major automakers are making big profits these days, as consumers replace aging cars and trucks with new models, loaded with technology, that last year sold for an average sticker price above $35, 000. Yet companies face a new set of challenges posed by slower growth, and industry executives are bracing for potential tariffs on vehicles imported into the United States from Mexico, or other adjustments in trade policies that could upset the global pipeline of parts to vehicle assembly plants. The uncertainty extends to the market itself, which has steadily grown year after year as consumers took advantage of easy credit and better economic conditions to replace aging vehicles. Demand, however, has leveled off, and companies are falling back on old habits to move excess inventories. Analysts reported that sales incentives were about 25 percent higher in the fourth quarter of 2016 than in the same period a year earlier, even though overall sales were flat. That is partly because of a sustained slump in sales of small and midsize cars, which has offset the increased demand for trucks and S. U. V. s. But it forces automakers to rely on discounts to sell less popular models, adjust production plans on the fly and lay off workers at some of their factories. General Motors, the nation’s largest automaker, has announced plans to cut shifts of workers at three assembly plants that build cars in Michigan and Ohio, and analysts expect more adjustments across the industry as companies try to better match supply with demand. “We do expect production will likely be cut, particularly in the compact and midsize segments,” said Alec Gutierrez, an analyst with the research firm Kelley Blue Book. The industry sold 1. 69 million vehicles during the month of December, an increase of about 3 percent from the same period a year earlier, according to the research firm Autodata. The 17. 55 million sold over the year was a gain of 0. 4 percent. Sales of trucks and S. U. V.s accounted for nearly   of the sales volume during December as consumers continue to turn to the larger vehicles over cars. Analysts expect the trend toward larger vehicles to continue as long as gas prices remain low. Over all, the industry forecasts sales exceeding 17 million vehicles in the United States in the coming year, although how automakers manage shifts in demand will affect their profitability. “The most successful automakers in the long term will be able to prioritize profitability over market share and be willing to pull back artificial support for unprofitable volume,” said Stephanie Brinkley, an analyst at the firm IHS Markit. G. M. said its sales in December increased 10 percent, to 319, 000 vehicles, although its annual sales for all of 2016 fell 1. 3 percent, to 3. 04 million vehicles. The company benefited from strong demand for pickups and its biggest S. U. V. s, such as the Chevrolet Tahoe, whose sales rose nearly 17 percent last year. But G. M. exemplified the market’s split personality, as several of its smaller cars experienced sharp declines. G. M. is expanding its S. U. V. lineup and will unveil new models at the coming Detroit auto show. Moreover, the company expects the industry to achieve   levels again in 2017. “Key economic indicators, especially consumer confidence, continue to reflect optimism about the U. S. economy,” said Mustafa Mohatarem, G. M.’s chief economist. Ford Motor, the   American automaker, said it sold 237, 000 vehicles in December, a slight gain from the same month in 2015. For the year, Ford reported sales of 2. 61 million vehicles in the United States  —   essentially the same total as in 2015. The company’s cornerstone product, the   pickup, was once again the   vehicle in the American market, with 820, 000 trucks sold last year. But sales of Ford’s car models fell about 12 percent in 2016 from a year earlier, with products like the Focus and the Fusion posting   declines. The third major American automaker, Fiat Chrysler, reported one of its weaker months in December, as sales fell 10 percent, to 192, 000 vehicles. For the full year, the company said it sold 2. 24 million vehicles, a decline of less than 1 percent from the previous year. Fiat Chrysler has substantially reduced its production of passenger cars and is busy converting car factories into truck plants. Last year, sales of its cars such as the Dodge Dart and the Chrysler 200 dropped precipitously as the company concentrated on beefing up its lineup of S. U. V. s, particularly its   Jeep models. Foreign automakers generally reported solid months in December. Toyota, for example, said its sales increased 2 percent during the month, although it ended 2016 with a 2 percent decrease for the full year. While the industry’s health appears closely tied to the continued demand for larger vehicles, some automakers have placed big bets on electric cars, which remain a tiny niche in the market. In one of the most closely watched introductions in the segment, G. M. said it sold 579 Chevrolet Bolts, a new   sedan, in December, its first month of sales. By contrast, the company sold more than 54, 000 Silverado pickups, its most popular product."
100,17399,What to Watch for in Fashion in 2017 - The New York Times,New York Times,Vanessa Friedman,2017-01-09,2017.0,1.0,,"So, the sparkly dresses and heat tech have been worn the ball, and the other shoe, has dropped. The year 2016 is over, and 2017 has begun. It’s no longer time to look back, but to look forward. And what do we see? When it comes to fashion  —   or more important, fashion as it affects life  —   there will be interesting times ahead. Here are some opening thoughts on what to watch for in the coming months. A new look in Washington and Paris. Pantsuits  —   at least on women  —   are out. So are the     look and the   look of men in   shirt sleeves. In Washington, we are entering the era of the boxy, oversize suit, the big knot, the   tie, and, maybe, European brands. As the Trump administration prepares to move into the executive wing, fashion  —   and the American capital  —   are preparing for a whole new style statement. The inauguration this month will throw down the gauntlet. What the   will wear (Brioni is my best guess) may ultimately be less significant than what his wife and eldest daughter will wear. Judging by the designs that Melania and Ivanka Trump wore on the campaign trail and on New Year’s Eve, the age of American designers in the White House may be over. On Dec. 31, after all, Melania celebrated in a black Dolce  Gabbana sheath (Stefano Gabbana, Instagramming the news, proudly joined the “I will dress Melania” camp). And previously, when stumping for her father, if not in her own brand, Ivanka opted for Roland Mouret and Alexander McQueen. If that pattern continues, that’s as big an upending of the soft status quo as anything Mr. Trump has pledged. Come Jan. 20, we’ll get the first real sense of what to expect. In France, where voters go to the polls in April and May, a   candidate, François Fillon, is known for combining Savile Row tailoring and Italian style, as well as for his fondness of red socks from Gammarelli (official tailor to the pope). By contrast, his   opponent, Marine Le Pen, has been characterized as promoting an image that is “mumsy” and “frumpy”  —   and not remotely   in contrast with Britain’s prime minister, Theresa May  —   perhaps to try to make her party, the formerly fringe National Front, more accessible. Either way, the   Pen oppositional   should have a   effect on fashion. Also on the runways. More upheaval on the  runways.  This year, the name to watch is indubitably Raf Simons, who makes his debut at Calvin Klein at New York Fashion Week in February, with a promise of shaking up the whole system. He’ll introduce his vision for the brand with a dual men’s and women’s wear show, thus giving his seal of approval to the new      trend, which extends from New York to London and Milan, and which includes Gucci, Burberry and Bottega Veneta. Think of it as the bandwagon of the sexes. And more cultural action off the runways. It’s going to be a banner year for fashion exhibitions. In February, in the middle of fashion month, Kensington Palace in London will host “Diana: Her Fashion Story,” a collection of garments worn by the princess in the 1980s and ’90s. In July, just before the couture shows kick off, the Musée des Arts Décoratifs in Paris  will present “Christian Dior. ” And in between those two openings, three major retrospectives will be unveiled in May: “Balenciaga: Shaping Fashion,” at the Victoria and Albert Museum in London “The World of Anna Sui,” at the Fashion and Textile Museum in London (the first retrospective of an American designer to be held in Britain) and, of course, “Rei   des Garçons” at the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s Costume Institute. The Met show should provide the best   moments of the year, as   gala attendees attempt to honor Ms. Kawakubo’s work, which focuses less on beauty than on the question of what clothing is. It should give new meaning to the concept of wearable art. Then there are the movies. On the subject of the Met and the Costume Institute gala: The   Party of the Year is set to play a pivotal role in the coming   remake of the film “Ocean’s 11,” called “Ocean’s 8. ” Then there’s a new crop of fashion biopics in the works, and they are doozies. Jack O’Connell has been signed to play Alexander McQueen in Andrew Haigh’s movie on the British designer, which is set to start filming in the spring Daniel   will channel Charles James for Paul Thomas Anderson’s    movie about the   couturier, who was the subject of a Met show in 2014 and on the small screen, Lady Gaga will be Donatella Versace in “ : American Crime Story,” the third season of the FX television drama. Will this help or hurt the increasingly intertwined relationship between Hollywood and high fashion? Reviews, and box offices, will tell. The wedding of the year. O. K. they haven’t set a date, but there’s little doubt that the marriage  of the tennis great Serena Williams and Alexis Ohanian,   of Reddit, is going to be a style grand slam. Between Ms. Williams’s avowed interest in fashion  —   see the outfits she designs for Nike, as well as her own line  —   and her willingness to take risks with tradition, her B. F. F. status with the American Vogue editor Anna Wintour, and her status as a crown princess of the BeyHive (see her appearance in Lemonade, this could put a whole new spin on nuptial trends. Pun intended."
101,17400,How to Predict Gentrification: Look for Falling Crime - The New York Times,New York Times,Emily Badger,2017-01-12,2017.0,1.0,,"Everyone has theories for why     professionals are moving back into parts of cities shunned by their parents’ generation. Perhaps their living preferences have shifted. Or the demands of the labor market have, and young adults with less leisure time are loath to waste it commuting. Maybe the tendency to postpone marriage and children has made city living more alluring. Or the benefits of cities themselves have improved. “There are all sorts of potential other amenities, whether it’s cafes, restaurants, bars, nicer parks, better schools,” said Ingrid Gould Ellen, a professor of urban policy and planning at New York University. “But a huge piece of it,” she said, “I think is crime. ” New research that she has conducted alongside Keren Mertens Horn, an economist at the University of Massachusetts in Boston, and Davin Reed, a doctoral student at N. Y. U. finds that when violent crime falls sharply, wealthier and educated people are more likely to move into   and predominantly minority urban neighborhoods. Their working paper suggests that just as rising crime can drive people out of cities, falling crime has a comparable effect, spurring gentrification. And it highlights how, even if many Americans  —   including, by his own words,   Donald Trump  —   inaccurately believe urban violence is soaring, the opposite   trend has brought   change to cities. “We’re trying to help people understand what a dramatic difference the reduction in violent crime in particular has made in our environment,” Ms. Ellen said. “That has repercussions far beyond what we think of. The homicide rate has gone down  —   that’s directly the most important consequence. But there are all sorts of repercussions as well. This really has been a sea change. ” Nationally, violent crime peaked in 1991. It fell precipitously for the next decade, then more slowly through the 2000s (and there’s a whole other set of theories about why that has happened). While homicides have increased recently in some cities, rates remain far below what they were 25 years ago, including in Chicago. (Another    reality check, while we’re at it: Mr. Trump said during the 2016 campaign that homicides in his new home in Washington were rising by 50 percent, apparently citing the previous year’s crime statistics. At that time in July, though, the rate in the city was already falling compared with 2015, and by year’s end, it was down by 17 percent.) The new research looked at confidential geocoded data from the 1990 and 2000 censuses, and more recent American Community Surveys, to identify the neighborhoods where more than four million households moved. Using citywide violent crime data from the F. B. I. the scholars tracked the changing probability of different demographic groups moving into central cities, as opposed to suburbs, as crime fell.   and   movers  —   and to a lesser degree, whites  —   appeared significantly more sensitive to changing crime levels in their housing decisions than other groups.   and minority households, for instance, didn’t become more likely to move to cities as they grew safer. That may reflect the fact, Ms. Ellen suggested, that   families have more experience or confidence in their ability to navigate crime. Or it may suggest that attention to violence is a luxury in housing decisions that the poor and minorities may not have. A household facing racial discrimination, high housing costs or the need to be near supportive family members simply has fewer options  —   and less leeway to be choosy  —   than the     households that this research identifies. “When cities feel safer, that opens people’s eyes,” Ms. Ellen said of the willingness of new groups to consider these neighborhoods. It’s entirely likely that the arrival of more affluent residents affected crime, too  —   either by increasing opportunities for property crime in the short term, or by adding eyes on the street and pressure on the police in the long run. Because this research looked at moves that occurred after crime was already falling, the authors believe the movers were reacting to changes in crime and not simply causing it themselves. But the relationship between crime and gentrification in particular is complex. Wealthier residents may bring new tensions to neighborhoods, fearing  —   and reporting  —   criminal activity where none exists. And such demographic change in cities could play a role in pressuring the police to pursue tactics that feel unduly aggressive to the people who preceded the newcomers. This study also doesn’t offer evidence that existing residents were displaced by the new arrivals. Many of the urban neighborhoods studied had lost population, so they had room to grow again without pushing existing residents out. But the possibility that these trends portend higher housing costs and more housing demand in the future in poorer, minority neighborhoods adds a cautionary note, Ms. Ellen said, to the declining crime trend."
102,17401,Farmer on Trial Defends Smuggling Migrants: ‘I Am a Frenchman.’ - The New York Times,New York Times,Adam Nossiter,2017-01-19,2017.0,1.0,,"NICE, France  —   At times it was hard to know who was on trial, the smuggler or the state. The defendant, Cédric Herrou, 37, a slightly built olive farmer, did not deny that for months he had illegally spirited dozens of migrants through the remote mountain valley where he lives. He would do it again, he suggested. Instead, when asked by a judge, “Why do you do all this?” Mr. Herrou turned the tables and questioned the humanity of France’s practice of rounding up and turning back Africans entering illegally from Italy in search of work and a better life. It was “ignoble,” he said. “There are people dying on the side of the road,” Mr. Herrou replied. “It’s not right. There are children who are not safe. It is enraging to see children, at 2 in the morning, completely dehydrated. “I am a Frenchman,” Mr. Herrou declared. The trial, which began on Wednesday, is no ordinary one. It has been substantially covered by the French news media for its rich symbolism and for the way it neatly sums up the ambiguity of France’s policy toward the unceasing flow of migrants into Europe and the quandary they present. France, foremost among European nations, prides itself on enlightened humanitarianism, fraternity and solidarity. And yet, perhaps first among them, too, it is struggling to reconcile those values with the pressing realities of a smaller, more globalized world, including fear of terrorism. The contradictions are being played out in courtrooms, in politics and in farmers’ fields, on the sidewalks of Paris and in train stations from the Côte d’Azur to the northern port of Calais, where the government demolished a giant migrant camp in the fall. On the one hand, politicians in this year’s presidential election are competing to see who can take the toughest line on securing France’s borders. Most are promising a crackdown on migrants, with admission reserved for   cases of political persecution. Terrorist attacks, including the one last summer in Nice that killed 85 people, have exacerbated   sentiment. But in these remote mountain valleys, where Jews fleeing the Nazis and the Vichy collaborators found refuge during World War II, Mr. Herrou has become something of a folk hero by leading a kind of loosely knit underground railroad to smuggle migrants north, many destined for Britain or Germany. His work has won him admiration for his resistance to the state and his stand that it is simply right to help one’s fellow man, woman or child. Others in this region seem to agree. In the square outside the   courthouse, hundreds of sympathizers gathered and shouted, “We are all children of immigrants!” Mr. Herrou got a hero’s welcome as he descended the steep steps late in the evening, trailed by television cameras. Inside, not even the prosecutor,   Prêtre, seemed to want him there and praised his cause as “noble. ” He asked for an   sentence, but quickly reassured the court that it should be suspended, “of course. ” Still, the law is the law. “He’s demonstrated a manifest intention to violate the law,” Mr. Prêtre told the court. “One can criticize it, but it’s got to be applied. ” The verdict, which will be made by the panel of three judges who heard the case this week  —   there was no jury of peers  —   is scheduled to be announced on Feb. 10. The appeal for leniency was both an acknowledgment of widespread discomfort with the law, as a well as recognition of Mr. Herrou’s growing status in the region around Nice and its mountainous backcountry, the Roya Valley. Mr. Herrou was voted “Azuréen of the Year” last month by the readers of the leading local newspaper,   to the fury of regional officials. “I am Cédric,” read one of the placards in the crowd. “Long live the righteous of the Roya,” read another. The courtroom on Wednesday was filled with people from the mountain  —   the men bearded and ponytailed, the women in duffel coats  —   who had come to support Mr. Herrou and who were convinced right was on their side. The notion that Mr. Herrou is trying to uphold what he sees as basic French values, rather than violating the law, is much of the reason he appears to enjoy a considerable measure of popular support. The argument formed the essence of his lawyer’s defense strategy. Remember the last word in the French Republic’s motto, “Liberté, Egalité, Fraternité,” his lawyer, Zia Oloumi, told the court. “They are saying M. Herrou is endangering the Republic,” Mr. Oloumi told the three judges. “On the contrary, I think he is defending its values. “You see, you have got this value, fraternity, and the dictionary is quite clear,” Mr. Oloumi said. “Think about the impact of your decision on the practical application of the idea of fraternity. ” Mr. Herrou was not making any political points, Mr. Oloumi insisted. He was merely responding to a humanitarian crisis in his own backyard the Roya Valley had become a way station for migrants. The judges did not respond. But the lightness of the sentence called for by Mr. Prêtre suggested that the concepts invoked by Mr. Oloumi had resonance. Mr. Herrou’s accusers seemed most taken aback by his stubbornness. Not every migrant Mr. Herrou picks up is by the side of the road. He finds many outside the migrant camp across the Italian border at Ventimiglia, looking especially for women and children. The presiding judge, Laurie Duca, reminded him he had first been arrested in August, near his mountainside home at    with a van full of migrants. At that time, the prosecutor released him, suggesting that Mr. Herrou’s humanitarian motivations absolved him. That first arrest was evidently merely a warning. “After August, you said you knew it was illegal,” Judge Duca remarked in court. No matter. Mr. Herrou persisted, describing his   work to journalists last fall and even occupying a disused summer camp owned by the state railroad when his own modest homestead became overwhelmed. At that point, in   the authorities decided they had had enough of him. “You were there, and you were extremely active,” the judge said. “Why so much press?” Mr. Herrou replied, “It is right that society should know about all this. ” The judge and the prosecutor suggested that this time Mr. Herrou would not get the humanitarian pass he had benefited from previously. The local political establishment is furious with him. “At the very moment when we need strict controls, Mr. Herrou’s ideological, premeditated actions are a major risk,” Eric Ciotti, the president of the departmental council and a leading   member of Parliament, wrote in  . Mr. Prêtre, the prosecutor, suggested that Mr. Herrou’s persistence and openness had been his undoing. “Mr. Herrou acknowledges everything,” Mr. Prêtre said, with astonishment. “This trial springs from a communications strategy for a cause that I totally respect. ” And yet, “this is what he told the police. He said, ‘I am violating the law.’ But I am the prosecutor. I must defend the law. ”"
103,17402,‘James Bond of Philanthropy’ Gives Away the Last of His Fortune - The New York Times,New York Times,Jim Dwyer,2017-01-06,2017.0,1.0,,"As it happens, Donald J. Trump is not the only person to announce plans to shut down a personal philanthropy, just the best known. This is the story of a man who made and kept that same promise. Nearly five years ago, Charles F. Feeney sat in a cushy armchair in an apartment on the east side of Manhattan, grandchildren’s artwork taped to the walls, and said that by the end of 2016, he was going to hand out the last of a great fortune that he had made. It was a race: Mr. Feeney was then 81, and Atlantic Philanthropies, a collection of private foundations he had started and funded, still had about $1. 5 billion left. Flinging money out the window or writing checks   was not Mr. Feeney’s way. Last month, Mr. Feeney and Atlantic completed the sprint and made a final grant, $7 million to Cornell University, to support students doing community service work. He had officially emptied his pockets, meeting his aspiration of “giving while living. ” Altogether, he had contributed $8 billion to his philanthropies, which have supported higher education, public health, human rights and scientific research. “You’re always nervous handling so much money, but we seem to have worked it pretty well,” Mr. Feeney, now 85, said last week in a phone interview. His remaining personal net worth is slightly more than $2 million. That’s not quite broke, by any standard, but it is a modest amount for a man who controlled thousands of times as much wealth. He and his wife, Helga, now live in a rented apartment in San Francisco. “You can only wear one pair of pants at a time,” Mr. Feeney has said. Until he was 75, he traveled only in coach, and carried reading materials in a plastic bag. For many years, when in New York, he had lunch not at the city’s luxury restaurants, but in the homey confines of Tommy Makem’s Irish Pavilion on East 57th Street, where he ate the burgers. None of the major American philanthropists have given away a greater proportion of their wealth, and starting in 1982, Mr. Feeney did most of this in complete secrecy, leading Forbes magazine to call him the “James Bond of philanthropy. ” His name does not appear in gilded letters, chiseled marble or other forms of writing anywhere on the 1, 000 buildings across five continents that $2. 7 billion of his money paid for. For years, Atlantic’s support came with a requirement that the beneficiaries not publicize its involvement. Beyond Mr. Feeney’s reticence about blowing his own horn, “it was also a way to leverage more donations  —   some other individual might contribute to get the naming rights,” said Christopher G. Oechsli, the president and chief executive officer of Atlantic. During the early 1990s, Mr. Feeney met secretly with paramilitary forces in Belfast, Northern Ireland, urging them to drop armed guerrilla conflict and promising financial support if they embraced electoral politics. Atlantic grants paid to create a public health system in Vietnam, and to provide access to antiretroviral treatment for AIDS in southern Africa. The last rounds of grants, about $600 million, included support for Atlantic Fellows, described as young emerging leaders working in their countries for healthier, more equitable societies. Raised in Elizabeth, N. J. Mr. Feeney served as a radio operator in the Air Force and attended Cornell University on the G. I. Bill. In 1960, he and a partner set up a company that sold items like brandy and cigars to travelers in   shops at airports. It became a booming success. Mr. Feeney has also been a shrewd investor in technology  . In 1984, he secretly transferred all of his assets, including his 38. 75 percent ownership of the   business, to Atlantic Philanthropies. He grew the Atlantic pot with early investments in companies like Facebook, Priceline,   Alibaba and Legent. A business dispute in 1997 forced disclosure of Mr. Feeney’s funding for Atlantic. As for Mr. Trump, if he really does shut down his foundation  —   stung by inquiries about the use of foundation money to pay Mr. Trump’s personal liabilities, or purchase football helmet memorabilia, or oil paintings of himself  —   he is not likely to follow the Feeney model. The two men are mirror images. For years, Mr. Trump lobbied hard to get onto lists of the wealthy, like the Forbes 400 Mr. Feeney has tried to stay off them. The Atlantic endowment came entirely from Mr. Feeney’s money much of the money that went into the Trump foundation in recent years was from others. One of Atlantic’s projects was to propose reforms to the American health care system, which helped lay groundwork for the Affordable Care Act another was advocacy for the end of the death penalty for juveniles. Mr. Trump has been on the other side of both of those issues, vowing to “dismantle Obamacare on Day 1,” and calling, in 1989, for the restoration of the death penalty after five teenagers were arrested in the rape of a jogger in Central Park. (They were convicted but later cleared of the charges.) Just as Mr. Trump was opening Trump Tower on Fifth Avenue in the early 1980s, Mr. Feeney was a few blocks away in Makem’s pub, thinking about the first big checks he would write for charity, on the condition that his identity not be disclosed. “I don’t recall ever meeting Trump,” Mr. Feeney said last week. No wonder. The thought crossed my mind 20 years ago that Chuck Feeney is what Donald Trump would be, if he lived his entire existence backward."
105,17404,4 Questioned After Video Shows Racially Charged Beating in Chicago - The New York Times,New York Times,Mitch Smith and Niraj Chokshi,2017-01-05,2017.0,1.0,,"CHICAGO  —   The police here were questioning four people on Wednesday as video circulated online showing a white teenager tied up and beaten as a group of young   shouted antiwhite messages and insulted   Donald J. Trump. “It’s sickening,” Superintendent Eddie Johnson of the Chicago Police Department said. “It makes you wonder, what would make individuals treat somebody like that?” The police said the victim was an    man from suburban Chicago who had “mental health challenges” and who had been reported missing. Officers spotted him on Tuesday in a violent neighborhood on Chicago’s West Side and recognized that he was in distress, the police said. They sought treatment for him at a hospital and connected the beating to four people who were taken into custody later that day near where the bloodied man had been found. A roughly   video clip shared widely online appeared to show a Facebook livestream of the assault. A group can be seen taunting and physically assaulting a man amid cursing and laughing. Much of the video focuses on one woman as she rambles, at times incoherently. The video begins with a shot of that woman before turning to the victim, who is seated in the corner of a room with his mouth covered. The woman laughs as two men cut the sleeve of the victim’s shirt. One of the men yells epithets about Mr. Trump and “white people. ” Later, a man cuts a patch of hair from the victim’s head, appearing to draw blood in the process. Mr. Johnson said criminal charges against the suspects, two men and two women, could be announced on Thursday. Investigators said they were not yet sure of a motive, but could pursue hate crime and kidnapping charges if the evidence warranted. The victim knew one of his attackers, the police said, and had been taken from the suburbs to the city and held for some time before the beating was streamed online. “Images in the video put on display the brazenness of the offenders who assaulted the victim and then broadcast it for the entire world to see,” Mr. Johnson said. The victim, whom the police did not name, was hospitalized for undisclosed injuries, but had been released by Wednesday evening and was speaking with investigators. The police said he was “traumatized” and initially had trouble communicating with detectives. The video’s spread online comes at a time of relentless violence in Chicago. In a Twitter post this week, Mr. Trump cited Chicago’s 762 murders last year and suggested that the city should seek federal help if local efforts to control the violence continued to be ineffective. Superintendent Johnson declined to speculate on whether the  ’s Twitter message and the videotaped beating were connected."
107,17406,Vermont Governor Pardons 192 for Marijuana Convictions - The New York Times,New York Times,Niraj Chokshi,2017-01-05,2017.0,1.0,,"Nearly 200 of the approximately 450 people who asked Gov. Peter Shumlin of Vermont to forgive their misdemeanor marijuana convictions had their wish fulfilled this week. In one of his final acts in office, Governor Shumlin on Tuesday pardoned 192 people convicted of marijuana possession, fulfilling a promise he made early last month to consider forgiveness for anyone who applied by Christmas. “While attitudes and laws about marijuana use are rapidly changing, there is still a harmful stigma associated with it,” Mr. Shumlin, a Democrat, said in a statement on Tuesday. “My hope was to help as many individuals as I could overcome that stigma and the very real struggles that too often go along with it. ” Such charges can stand in the way of finding work, being accepted to college and traveling internationally. The pardons were limited to people who had no violent criminal histories or felony convictions, and who had not been found guilty of driving under the influence or reckless driving. People who did not apply for a pardon under Mr. Shumilin can still apply to have marijuana possession convictions expunged from their record through a court process established under a 2013 state decriminalization law. Mr. Shumlin cited that law and his own support for legalizing marijuana as the basis for the pardons. “Vermont should follow the many states that are legalizing and regulating the use of marijuana and put to an end the incredible failure that is the War on Drugs,” he said in the statement. His successor, Phil Scott, a Republican, has urged caution, though he has signaled he may be open to legalization eventually. He is scheduled to be sworn in on Thursday and has said that he supports the pardons, according to local news reports. Those who received the pardons ranged in age from 22 to 69, though most were younger than 40. All but 15 live in Vermont. In all, Mr. Shumlin has issued 208 pardons since taking office in 2010, more than any other governor in the history of the state, his office said."
110,17411,Russian Intervention in American Election Was No One-Off - The New York Times,New York Times,Scott Shane,2017-01-07,2017.0,1.0,,"The intelligence agencies’ report on the Russian intervention in the American presidential election portrays it as just one piece of an     propaganda campaign. But it was a campaign made enormously more powerful by the tools of the cyberage: private emails pilfered by hackers, an internet that reaches into most American homes, social media to promote its revelations and smear enemies. What most Americans may have seen as a   effort  —   brazen meddling by Russia in the very core of American democracy  —   was, the report says, only part of a   information war that involves not just shadowy hackers and   websites, but also more conventional news outlets, including the thriving Russian television network RT. The election intervention to damage Hillary Clinton and lift Donald J. Trump was the latest fusillade in a campaign that has gone on under the radar for years. For the three agencies that produced the report  —   the C. I. A. the F. B. I. and the National Security Agency  —   this is a   moment: They have just told their new boss that he was elected with the vigorous, multifaceted help of an adversary, the thuggish autocrat who rules Russia. “Putin and the Russian government aspired to help   Trump’s election chances when possible by discrediting Secretary Clinton and publicly contrasting her unfavorably to him,” the report says, in unusually blunt and sweeping language. Perhaps most arresting is the assessment that Vladimir V. Putin, the Russian president, sees the election attack as payback  —   not offense, but defense. He has borne a serious grudge against Mrs. Clinton, who he believes denigrated him when she was secretary of state and encouraged the   protests in Moscow that erupted against him in 2011. Mr. Putin, the report says, sees the hidden hand of the United States in the leaking of the Panama Papers, files stolen from a law firm that exposed the wealth of his closest associates, secreted in offshore accounts. He even blames the United States for the exposure  —   carried out mainly by international sports authorities  —   of Russian athletes for their widespread use of   drugs. “From the Russian perspective, this is punching back,” said Christopher Porter, a former C. I. A. officer who now studies cyberattacks at the firm FireEye. “We may not think that’s fair or justified, but that’s the way they see it. ” Mr. Porter said Mr. Putin had made no secret of his view that the United States, by promoting democracy in countries like Ukraine and Georgia, had interfered in Russia’s backyard and was trying to undermine its power. What is missing from the public report is what many Americans most eagerly anticipated: hard evidence to back up the agencies’ claims that the Russian government engineered the election attack. That is a significant omission: Mr. Trump has been expressing skepticism for months that Russia was to blame, variously wondering whether it might have been China, or a   guy, or a guy from New Jersey. There is only a whisper of dissent in the report  —   the eavesdroppers of the N. S. A. believe with only “moderate confidence” that Russia aimed to help Mr. Trump, while their colleagues at the C. I. A. and the F. B. I. have “high confidence. ” While most of Congress and much of the public appears to accept the agencies’ findings, Mr. Trump’s prominent doubts, accompanied at times by scorn for the agencies’ competence, has rallied a diverse array of skeptics on the right and the left. Under the circumstances, many in Washington expected the agencies to make a strong public case to erase any uncertainty. Instead, the message from the agencies essentially amounts to “trust us. ” There is no discussion of the forensics used to recognize the handiwork of known hacking groups, no mention of intercepted communications between the Kremlin and the hackers, no hint of spies reporting from inside Moscow’s propaganda machinery. At the top of every page of the report is a disclaimer that acknowledges what is missing: “This report is a declassified version of a highly classified assessment its conclusions are identical to those in the highly classified assessment, but this version does not include the full supporting information on key elements of the influence campaign. ” It offers an obvious reason for leaving out the details, declaring that including “the precise bases for its assessments” would “reveal sensitive sources or methods and imperil the ability to collect critical foreign intelligence in the future. ” The absence of any proof is especially surprising in light of promises on Thursday from the director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr. that he would “push the envelope” to try to make more information public. Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Obama had directed officials to “make as much of it public as they possibly can. ” That will not be enough for many, as the initial reaction showed. While some welcomed the scope of the report, many others were disappointed. “This is big: CIA, NSA  FBI publish perhaps the most   intelligence community assessment in US history,” Thomas Rid, a professor at King’s College London and an expert on cyberwarfare, wrote on Twitter. But Susan Hennessey, a former intelligence agency lawyer who is now the managing editor of the online journal Lawfare, wrote: “The unclassified report is underwhelming at best. There is essentially no new information for those who have been paying attention. ” Though the unclassified report is 25 pages long, counting the covers and several blank pages, the core analysis runs just five pages. That is less than the   “annex” devoted to RT America, the television network. It is a description of the broadcaster from an intelligence report written in 2012, years before the   hacking took place. The agencies “have taken an   look at the broader Russian strategy,” said Mr. Porter, the former C. I. A. officer. The detailed description of RT’s tactics, though years old, he added, was included because they fit that strategy. Mr. Trump may have been persuaded by his classified briefing on Friday on the Russian attack, which included everything that the unclassified report leaves out, even if the statement he issued afterward seemed lukewarm. But this report is unlikely to change the minds of skeptics who, like the   remember the intelligence agencies’ faulty assessments on Iraqi weapons of mass destruction and fear being misled again."
111,17412,Russia Requires Apple and Google to Remove LinkedIn From Local App Stores - The New York Times,New York Times,Cecilia Kang and Katie Benner,2017-01-07,2017.0,1.0,,"WASHINGTON  —   Smartphone users in Russia can no longer download the LinkedIn app on iPhone or Android devices, following a similar move in China to block The New York Times app on iPhones. The demand by Russian authorities to remove LinkedIn in Apple and Google app stores comes weeks after a court blocked the professional networking service for flouting local laws that require internet firms to store data on Russian citizens within the nation’s borders. The action is the equivalent of a nation banning “Catcher in The Rye” and then forcing booksellers to remove the title from their shelves. It puts Apple and Google in a difficult position. The companies are strong proponents of open internet policies and free speech but are now being asked to be agents for governments that censor its citizens. When LinkedIn’s website was blocked, the apps stopped functioning properly. Removing them from the Google Play store and Apple’s App Store may not have cut off access to content, but it sent a signal that countries can push the tech giants to remove the apps. Direct blocking of websites has been done by China, Russia, Turkey and several other nations for years, usually through their   internet service providers. But civil rights groups say the pressure authoritarian governments are now placing on Apple and Google is a new wrinkle. “Apps are the new choke point of free expression,” said Rebecca MacKinnon, who leads a project on open internet tracking at New America. Increasingly, United States tech companies are complying with those demands. In the early 2000s, American internet firms strongly pushed back on demands by China to comply with censorship rules within the country’s internet controls, known as the Great Firewall. Recently, Facebook has been working on a censorship tool to be able to access China, where it is currently blocked along with Twitter and Google. LinkedIn, which is owned by Microsoft, said it was “disappointed” with the decision by Russian regulators to block the service, which the company confirmed was extended to apps in Russian Apple and Google Play stores. “It denies access to our members in Russia and the companies that use LinkedIn to grow their businesses,” said Nicole Leverich, a spokeswoman for LinkedIn. Apple confirmed it was asked to remove its LinkedIn app in Russia about a month ago. It has also confirmed it was asked by China to block The New York Times app, but declined to comment further on both events. Google would not confirm it has removed LinkedIn in Russia but said it adheres to local laws in the countries in which it operates. More nations have enforced their own internet laws in recent years. Turkey intermittently blocks social media, such as during the attempted government coup last summer. It has also forced YouTube to remove content it considers disparaging of its   founder Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. European nations have also drawn up their own privacy laws and in 2014 a court declared its citizens could demand internet companies like Google unlink information about users upon request. Tech companies and civil rights advocates warn that the increasing push by nations to create their own internet rules will Balkanize the internet and potentially lead to privacy violations and the stifling of political dissent. Other countries, however, criticize Silicon Valley and the United States government for setting the norms and rules for the internet. “Internet free speech and internet freedom are increasingly under attack all over the globe, and not just from authoritarian regimes,” said Robert M. McDowell, a former member of the Federal Communications Commission and partner at Cooley law firm. “It appears to be a   ratchet with speech control getting tighter. ” LinkedIn has several million users in Russia, it said. In November, a Russian court ruled that the professional networking site broke local laws that require foreign internet firms to keep their servers holding information on Russian accounts within the nation. Most American internet companies in Russia operate in violation of the law, but without explanation, Russian regulators at a body known as Roskomnadzor took the rare step of enforcing its rules. The Russian regulators could not be immediately reached for comment. The action came at a tense moment in   States relations related to cyber affairs. Russia has been accused of hacking into American accounts, including the Democratic National Committee, to try to influence the presidential election. American intelligence officials concluded in a declassified report released on Friday that the president of Russia, Vladimir V. Putin, ordered the campaign."
112,17413,U.S. Says Russians Were Behind Cyberattacks on Antidoping Agency - The New York Times,New York Times,Rebecca R. Ruiz,2017-01-07,2017.0,1.0,,"United States intelligence officials have determined that last year’s cyberattacks on the World   Agency originated with the Russian government, perpetrated in apparent retaliation for what President Vladimir V. Putin deemed to be an   effort to defame Russia for widespread doping. That conclusion was published Friday in a declassified intelligence report ordered by President Obama. The report centered on Russia’s efforts to affect the 2016 American presidential election at Mr. Putin’s direction, while also referring to Russia’s related “influence efforts against targets such as Olympic athletes and other foreign governments. ” “A prominent target since the 2016 Summer Olympics has been the World   Agency,” the report said. WADA, the global regulator of drugs in sports, commissioned numerous investigations into systematic Russian doping last year. In July, the agency recommended that Russia be barred from the 2016 Games in Rio de Janeiro for its   doping program, which persisted for years and spanned disciplines. Weeks later, the regulator discovered that its database containing the private medical information of international athletes had been breached. A group identifying itself as Fancy Bear  —   a Russian cyberespionage group that forensics experts had tied to the Russian government  —   published the records of athletes who had received special clearance to take typically banned substances for medical reasons. In Friday’s report, American intelligence officials concluded that the Fancy Bear hacking had originated with Russia’s main military intelligence unit, the G. R. U. which had also begun working to influence the American election in March. Many of the records stolen from the doping regulator related to American athletes, including Simone Biles, the gymnast who won numerous medals in Rio, and the tennis stars Venus and Serena Williams. The release of the records was an apparent attempt to discredit the athletes and paint the United States as hypocritical, Friday’s report stated. On Friday, Catherine MacLean, a spokeswoman for the antidoping agency, pointed to the organization’s statement in September condemning the criminal activity and noted that the agency had “asked the Russian government to do everything in their power to make it stop. ” Russian news media and sports officials have repeatedly invoked the stolen records in recent months, arguing that they are evidence of legalized doping and what they perceive to be the preferential treatment of Western athletes. Regulators and Olympic officials have repeatedly defended the affected athletes, noting that they followed proper procedure and received formal clearance. “Russia never had the opportunities that were given to other countries,” Vitaly Smirnov, a former top Russian sports official appointed by Mr. Putin to reform the nation’s antidoping system, said last month, referring to the hacked records as evidence. “The general feeling in Russia is that we didn’t have a chance. ”"
113,17414,Trump Nominees’ Filings Threaten to Overwhelm Federal Ethics Office - The New York Times,New York Times,Eric Lipton and Steve Eder,2017-01-07,2017.0,1.0,,"WASHINGTON  —   Rex W. Tillerson owns more than $50 million of Exxon Mobil stock, has earned an annual salary of $10 million and holds a range of positions  —   from director at the Boy Scouts of America to the managing director of a Texas horse and cattle ranch. But Mr. Tillerson is prepared to resign from all those posts, sell all his stock and put much of his money into bland investments like Treasury bonds if he becomes secretary of state, according to an “ethics undertakings” memo he filed this week with the State Department. And, if he returns to the oil industry in the next decade, he could lose as much as $180 million. The   ethics letter detailing Mr. Tillerson’s commitments is the first of hundreds that will be made public in the coming weeks by members of   Donald J. Trump’s cabinet and other top political appointees, presenting a historic test of the federal government’s ability to identify conflicts of interest  —   and figure out ways to avoid them. Mr. Trump has selected what would be the wealthiest cabinet in modern American history, filled with millionaires and billionaires with complicated financial portfolios. Mr. Tillerson is worth at least $300 million, but is hardly the richest among them: Wilbur L. Ross Jr. the commerce secretary nominee Betsy DeVos, the education secretary nominee and Steven T. Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary nominee, each hold assets estimated at more than a billion dollars. Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump’s wealthy    is in the process of submitting his own forms as he prepares to take a formal White House position, people involved in the process said. “The Office of Government Ethics is stressed, no doubt about that,” said Robert Rizzi, a partner at Steptoe  Johnson, who represents half a dozen Trump administration nominees going through the process, although he would not name them, citing confidentiality agreements. “They are having some difficulty keeping up. ” All of the cabinet appointees and hundreds of others must submit a financial disclosure report detailing all the assets they own, their approximate value and income from any source they have made in the last year. Some of the nominees are so wealthy  —   and their assets so varied  —   there are not enough boxes on the standard form for them, lawyers involved in the process said. The disclosures are then used by the agencies they are to take over, along with the Office of Government Ethics, to identify potential conflicts of interest and to negotiate ethics letters to be signed by the nominees, committing to avoid conflicts of interest. At the same time, this class of wealthy incoming officials could save hundreds of millions of dollars in income tax payments, thanks to a special tax benefit created so that affluent Americans do not avoid federal government jobs. The Trump administration, lawyers involved in the effort said, is behind where it should be in this process of disentangling conflicts of interest. This is partly a reflection of the extraordinary complexity of negotiating such conflict of interest agreements for incoming government officials worth hundreds of millions, or even billions, of dollars. “Usually, you just own a bunch of stocks and bonds, but he’s getting people that own buildings and real estate and stuff you can’t sell,” said Alan Johnson, a New   compensation consultant. “He has Wilbur Ross, who is probably involved in a gazillion different things. I think it is going to be very complicated to try to disentangle all of these things. ” Mr. Ross is a billionaire investor and former banker who made a fortune in steel, coal, telecommunications and other industries. Under federal law, executive branch employees, including cabinet members, are prohibited from using their positions in the government to enrich themselves, meaning they are not allowed to participate in any particular matter that might directly financially benefit assets they own. The best way to avoid such a conflict, said Lawrence M. Noble, former general counsel at the Federal Election Commission, is to sell any assets  —   like Exxon Mobil stock or any individual company stock  —   and put proceeds into Treasury bonds or mutual funds. “We don’t want the decisions that these individuals make to be influenced  —   in reality, or even appearance  —   by their own financial interests,” Mr. Noble said. “They are working for the American people, and not to enrich themselves or their families. ” The rules do not apply to the president and vice president, although ethics experts  —   and even the Office of Government Ethics  —   have urged Mr. Trump to divest his assets voluntarily to rid himself of potential concerns as he takes over the White House. He has thus far resisted such a move, saying that he plans to let his two oldest sons and other Trump Organization executives manage the business, perhaps with an outside monitor. For appointees like Mr. Tillerson, the transition to government can have lucrative benefits: They can take advantage of measures in the tax code meant to be an incentive for wealthy people to consider public service jobs. The measure was put in place during the administration of the first President George Bush. This tax benefit, which requires    approval by the Office of Government Ethics, allows government officials to defer paying capital gains taxes on certain assets that they must sell in order to clear potential conflicts as they take office  —   essentially providing them with   loans. To gain the tax advantage, the liquidated proceeds must then be invested in Treasury bonds, mutual funds or   funds, and the official must seek a certificate of divestiture. Until now, Henry M. Paulson Jr. Treasury secretary under President George W. Bush, has been the most prominent example of a public official who has taken advantage of the divestiture certificate. In 2006, Mr. Paulson left Goldman Sachs and sold an estimated $500 million in Goldman stock, deferring taxes on the sale. In his memo, Mr. Tillerson suggested that he was likely to seek such a certificate, and laid out a series of plans to divorce himself from financial engagements, board appointments and Exxon Mobil. This means he will most likely avoid capital gains taxes based on his sale of $50 million in Exxon Mobil stock he owns, as well as shares in more than 150 companies including Airbus and the Walt Disney Company, all of which he has promised to sell off within 90 days of his confirmation, his ethics documents suggest. But a more complicated task involved resolving the fate of two million shares of Exxon Mobil stock, worth about $180 million, that Mr. Tillerson was set to receive over the next decade. If he held on to this promised future payout from Exxon Mobil, he would still have a financial interest in matters that might affect the company and the oil industry. So Exxon Mobil agreed to take the unusual step of paying out the value of these sales and putting the money into an independent trust, with the money invested in neutral assets like Treasury bonds and mutual funds. Under the terms of the agreement, if Mr. Tillerson, 64, goes back into the oil industry during the next decade, he will forfeit any money left in the account. Richard W. Painter, a White House ethics lawyer during the administration of President George W. Bush, said this provision preventing Mr. Tillerson from returning to the oil industry was unusual and positive, as it removes the incentive for him to take steps while in government that might benefit an industry he planned to return to work for upon his departure. “It gives up something I had never been able to get from other government officials  —   a promise not to go back to an industry from which you came,” Mr. Painter said. Still, some environmental activists say such steps cannot address what they argue will be Mr. Tillerson’s inherent bias in the State Department. “It is impossible for this man to remove his career, and frankly his personality, from the oil and gas industry,” said Lena Moffitt, director of a Sierra Club campaign trying to reduce the nation’s reliance on fossil fuels. “He has been knee deep in this industry for more than four decades. ”"
114,17415,Trump Meets With Some Vocal Critics: Editors at Vanity Fair and Vogue - The New York Times,New York Times,Laura M. Holson,2017-01-07,2017.0,1.0,,"  Donald J. Trump arrived at 1 World Trade Center a little before 10 a. m. on Friday to face some of his harshest critics in New York: top editors and digital directors of Condé Nast’s stable of magazines, among them Vanity Fair, The New Yorker and Vogue. According to a tweet by Mr. Trump, he had been invited by Anna Wintour, Condé Nast’s artistic director and the editor of Vogue. Also in attendance were Graydon Carter, the editor of Vanity Fair, who has sparred with Mr. Trump since his days as an editor at Spy magazine in the 1980s, and David Remnick, the editor of The New Yorker, who is an expert on Russia. They have been among Mr. Trump’s most vocal detractors, along with the writers at Teen Vogue. The meeting, held in a conference room on the 42nd floor with a view of New Jersey, lasted barely an hour. In answering questions from editors, Mr. Trump addressed health care, climate change, relations with Russia, women’s issues and abortion rights. Mr. Trump mostly reiterated plans or policies he has discussed publicly for months, according to two people who were apprised of the meeting but spoke on condition of anonymity because they had not been authorized to talk. When asked about health care, for instance, he told the group that he did not want to get rid of the Affordable Care Act until he had another plan in place, one of the people said. Several editors contacted declined to discuss the meeting, which was off the record. “Not my preference,” Mr. Carter wrote in an email. “But I will abide by that. ” A Condé Nast spokesman declined to comment. Ms. Wintour visited Mr. Trump at Trump Tower in   after she had criticized the Trump Foundation and suggested that Mr. Trump and his family would personally profit from his time in the White House. Ms. Wintour, a supporter of Hillary Clinton, later apologized for the comments. Mr. Trump was photographed entering Condé Nast’s headquarters alongside Michael Flynn, his choice to be national security adviser. Hope Hicks, a spokeswoman for Mr. Trump, and Kellyanne Conway, his incoming counselor, were also there. Hilary Rosen, a political strategist for SKD Knickerbocker in Washington, said all of Condé Nast’s brands have had a relationship with presidential families over the years. “It is a rich opportunity for content,” she said. Michelle Obama has been on the cover of Vogue, for example. At the same, Ms. Rosen added, “It’s not like their progressive agenda is going to have an impact on Trump. ” Ms. Rosen, who had close ties to the Clinton campaign, characterized Mr. Trump’s meetings with media outlets as “nothing more than an attempt by his team’s part to take the horns off. ” In a phone interview on Friday night, Ms. Conway declined to discuss the substance of the meeting, but said it was an opportunity for Mr. Trump to “connect with the media. ” She added that “no consideration was given to image. ” In December, Mr. Trump criticized Vanity Fair on Twitter after the magazine gave the restaurant in Trump Tower a bad review. Subscription sales have soared in the wake of Mr. Trump’s criticism, the magazine said. And Vanity Fair printed his tweet on its latest cover."
115,17416,Hospital Confirms Eric Trump Helped Raise $16.3 Million for It - The New York Times,New York Times,Eric Lipton and Maggie Haberman,2017-01-07,2017.0,1.0,,"WASHINGTON  —   Eric Trump has helped raise $16. 3 million for St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital of Tennessee over the past decade, a hospital official said in a letter sent to a charity run by Mr. Trump, the  ’s son. The letter comes as Mr. Trump is preparing to remove his name from the charity to avoid conflicts of interest that could emerge from future  . The letter confirms an account Mr. Trump gave to reporters that his organization has raised more than $15 million for the hospital, despite available tax records showing that the Eric Trump Foundation raised less than half that amount. Mr. Trump’s announcement that he will remove his name from the organization is one of a series of steps that members of the Trump family are taking to address potential conflicts before the inauguration. Other steps include terminating planned Trump Organization projects in countries like Azerbaijan, Brazil, Colombia and Georgia. In addition to removing his name from his charitable foundation, Mr. Trump will no longer personally solicit funds for it, he said in several interviews with The New York Times. To further avoid conflicts, Mr. Trump said in an email this week, his    and a Trump Organization executive will step down from the foundation’s executive committee. The Trump Organization will continue to raise money for St. Jude from patrons at its hotels and golf courses, Mr. Trump said. But it will ask them to make contributions directly to the hospital, he said, instead of first sending the money to the Trump Organization. The St. Jude letter said that since its establishment, the Eric Trump Foundation had raised  —   or helped raise through affiliated groups  —   $16. 3 million for the hospital, which offers free care to needy children. Tax documents filed by nonprofit foundations are often delayed by two years, so there is no public accounting of these totals yet available. The letter said that some of the money was raised via related efforts, such as an Eric Trump   team that participates in the New York City Marathon. “I am amazed by the many ways that you have personally embraced our cause and cared for our children and families,” Richard C. Shadyac Jr. president of the hospital’s   organization, wrote in the Dec. 30 letter, which Mr. Trump provided to The Times. “As you are aware, we are expanding our lifesaving work and are working to push cure rates even higher in this country and around the world, while improving the lives of survivors by developing and advancing treatments that reduce side effects. We are only able to do this because of the support provided by donors and supporters like you. ” In his email this week, Mr. Trump said he would “continue to be a vocal advocate for pediatric cancer and St. Jude’s mission. ”   Donald J. Trump has announced that he is shutting down his own personal foundation, although it is currently the target of an investigation by the New York State attorney general over accusations that it did not have the proper permit to solicit contributions, and that it may have used money to benefit Mr. Trump’s own interests. No such accusations have been made about Eric Trump’s foundation."
117,17418,California Today: Cracking Down on Distracted Driving - The New York Times,New York Times,Mike McPhate,2017-01-06,2017.0,1.0,,"Good morning. (Want to get California Today by email? Here’s the  .) Let’s turn it over to Jonah Engel Bromwich for today’s introduction. A California law that went into effect on Sunday barring drivers from holding phones while operating vehicles is among the most stringent in the nation. But experts say that it most likely won’t be enough to prevent accidents caused by distracted driving. Jennifer Ryan, AAA’s director of state relations, cautioned in a phone interview on Thursday that, “hands free is not risk free. ” Ms. Ryan said the California measure matched a larger trend of states bringing legislation    with contemporary phones. But while the state’s provisions were particularly broad, she said, it was important for motorists to take responsibility for themselves and pay attention. The law goes beyond what federal authorities recommend to prevent distracted driving, which remains a significant cause of traffic fatalities. The latest statistics from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration show that more than 3, 400 people died in 2015 in crashes that involved a distracted driver. Of those, 272 were teenagers. And while the use of smartphones is certainly part of the problem, many are unconvinced that keeping them out of drivers’ hands will be a panacea. Some have speculated that the California law may encourage enthusiasm for   cars. When Gov. Jerry Brown signed the measure into law in September, he approved of another bill that allowed for the first tests of autonomous driving vehicles on public roads. Steve Finnegan, the government affairs manager of the Automobile Club of Southern California, said that while the new legislation “is a step in the right direction,” it does not address “the complete issue of distracted driving. ” “One of the bigger issues is cognitive distraction,” Mr. Finnegan said. “It’s not what your hands are doing it’s what your brain is doing. ” (Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have metered paywalls.) • Senator Dianne Feinstein will be at the center of the debate over   Donald J. Trump’s nominees. [McClatchy] • San Diego’s mayor has quietly started mulling a run for governor. [Politico] • A lawmaker’s claim that California legalized child prostitution was rated “Pants on Fire” by a   group. [PolitiFact] • California is bracing for the type of punishing rains that happen about once every  . [San Francisco Chronicle] • Grapes ripen earlier. Nights warm up. Aquifers run dry. Climate change is hitting wine country. [The New York Times] • Why more California families are falling into homelessness. [KPCC] • After overhauling its football stadium, U. C. Berkeley owes more money than any other college sports program. [Bloomberg News] • It was one of the most productive, disjointed and confusing years in the life of Kanye West. [The New York Times] • How the Hollywood artist Tyrus Wong fused traditional influences with his own style to create the look of “Bambi. ” [The New York Times] • The   category at the Oscars is a   race, with “La La Land” in the lead. [The New York Times] • Pete Wells’s harsh review of an Oakland fast food restaurant faced some backlash. [Los Angeles Magazine] Boats bobbing in the marina, a shimmering blue bay, the echoing calls of seabirds. Sausalito, a tiny waterfront community just north of the Golden Gate Bridge, is an inspiring place. So it was, many summers ago, that Otis Redding stayed on a houseboat there and came up with the first idea for an American classic. It was this weekend in 1968 that Mr. Redding’s “(Sittin’ on) the Dock of the Bay” was released. In August 1967, the   soul singer had come to San Francisco to do a series of gigs at Basin Street West, a storied club at the time. According to Jonathan Gould, the author of a forthcoming biography of Mr. Redding, the rock promoter Bill Graham offered Mr. Redding the use of his houseboat up in Sausalito. While relaxing there with his guitar, he is thought to have sketched the lines: Later, the guitarist Steve Cropper helped to fill out the rest of the song and it was recorded in November. But Mr. Redding never heard the single. Just 18 days after the studio session, he died in a plane crash in Madison, Wis. on Dec. 10, 1967. He was 26. On Jan. 8, 1968, the “Dock of the Bay” album was released. The single rose to No. 1 on Billboard’s pop chart and stayed there for four weeks. It was the biggest hit of Mr. Redding’s career. California Today goes live at 6 a. m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com. The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a   Californian  —   born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano. He lives in Davis. Follow him on Twitter. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and attended U. C. Berkeley."
118,17419,Westchester County Reacts to Possible Indian Point Shutdown - The New York Times,New York Times,Lisa W. Foderaro,2017-01-07,2017.0,1.0,,"For years, antinuclear activists, concerned parents, local officials and others have worried about Indian Point, a   nuclear plant on the Hudson River in northern Westchester County that provides cheap energy and robust tax revenue, but also carries the risk of disaster. The news on Friday that the state had negotiated a deal that could shut down the plant within five years sent shock waves of jubilation, relief and anxiety through the suburbs north of New York City. On one side was an almost gleeful disbelief that what had seemed an insurmountable goal  —   ridding the county of nuclear power  —   would come to pass. Nada Khader, executive director of the Wespac Foundation, a nonprofit group in White Plains that advocates social justice, was told about the development by a reporter. “This is really amazing for Wespac, an organization whose many, many members have been working for decades to shut Indian Point,” she said. “All of us want to shift to safe energy. We absolutely welcome this news. ” But there were also misgivings about what the closing would mean for utility customers, Indian Point employees and the nearby schools that rely on the plant’s tax dollars. Officials in Westchester County said they were blindsided by the deal and were upset that they were not consulted. Robert P. Astorino, the county executive and a vocal supporter of Indian Point, which is in the village of Buchanan, said more than $4 million enters the county’s coffers every year from the plant, representing nearly 1 percent of the tax base. “No one from the governor’s office had the common courtesy to call the county affected by this,” Mr. Astorino, a Republican, said. “So we’re all trying to figure out what will happen in the future and the costs of this potential closure. There are enormous economic consequences to something like this. ” Perhaps no single entity will suffer the financial effects of the shutdown more than Hendrick Hudson schools, a district with 2, 400 students that draws from parts of a   towns and villages near the plant. The superintendent, Joseph E. Hochreiter, said taxes from the company that owns Indian Point, Entergy, made up   of the district’s $75. 8 million operating budget annually. “We’ve enjoyed some of the lowest property tax increases of any school district in Westchester County and that has made this a very appealing community to move to and stay in,” he said. “Entergy plays a major, major role in keeping taxes down. If they are not operating at the capacity that we’re accustomed to, we are going to have budget deficits. ” Converting Indian Point’s property to another use  —   whether residential or commercial  —   may not be possible, given the environmental history of the   site. Still, after years of   over the potential for a catastrophe, many residents said they would be happy to have a   county. Opponents of the plant had seized on the Sept. 11 terror attacks and, later, the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster in Japan to galvanize support for shutting Indian Point. More recently, critics had focused on fighting a natural gas pipeline that was constructed on the plant’s land. Elected officials, residents and environmental activists have criticized the project, saying that a rupture could unleash a nuclear catastrophe. While Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat, has long called for the plant’s closing, few thought a decision to shut it down was imminent. Nancy Vann, a retired Wall Street lawyer who lives in Peekskill, has fought against Indian Point for years. She is president of Safe Energy Rights Group, which was formed in response to the natural gas pipeline. “I’m very, very happy about this,” she said, referring to news of the agreement. But like others, she was concerned about the plant’s spent fuel rods. Under the deal, they will be moved off site eventually. “Indian Point won’t be completely safe until the spent fuel rods are all put into hardened dry cask storage,” she said. “I just want people to realize that the fact that Indian Point is closing  —   and not immediately  —   doesn’t mean it will be safe right away. ” Michael B. Kaplowitz, chairman of the Westchester County Board of Legislators, listed other concerns  —   from the plant’s decommissioning costs and the fate of its 1, 000 employees, to the effects on the local area. While he is eager to see details of the deal, he said that on balance, shutting it made sense. “It’s a net societal gain because of the specter of terrorism,” he said. “The better the details are for the company, the worse it is for the rate payers and taxpayers. I’m hoping that given the leverage the state has that the tax payers and rate payers do better than the Entergy shareholders. ” “I can say,” he added, “that I’m encouraged that it looks like we are turning the page on a nuclear power plant that doesn’t belong 25 miles from New York City. ”"
119,17420,Recovery Finally Yields Big Gains for Average Worker’s Pay - The New York Times,New York Times,Nelson D. Schwartz,2017-01-07,2017.0,1.0,,"It has been a long time coming  —   eight years, in fact  —   but the economic recovery is finally showing up in the average American worker’s paycheck in a big way. There have been plenty of winners in the recovery, which began in  : companies, homeowners, investors and, especially, households at the apex of the economic pyramid. But the paucity of gains in   pay has stoked anxiety and frustration for many others, a factor in the wave of discontent that   Donald J. Trump rode to victory in November. But even as Mr. Trump prepares to succeed President Obama in two weeks, the Labor Department reported on Friday that average hourly earnings rose by 2. 9 percent last year, the best annual performance since the recovery began. And many economists expect the trend to gain momentum this year, as a tighter labor market forces employers to pay more to hire and retain workers. “This is a turning point for the overall economy,” said Diane Swonk, a veteran independent economist in Chicago. While wage growth was robust last year, government data for December showed a more tepid increase in employment, with 156, 000 jobs added during the month, and a slight uptick in the unemployment rate to 4. 7 percent. Until recently, a rise in salaries one month would peter out the next, but the upward trajectory in 2016 reflects wage gains even for Americans at the low end of the pay scale, Ms. Swonk said. Leisure and hospitality workers, for example, saw hourly earnings jump 4. 4 percent from a year earlier, equal to the increase enjoyed by employees in the surging technology sector. To be sure, a number of the economic problems cited by Mr. Trump during the campaign remain: millions of former workers not even looking for jobs, ebbing factory positions and fewer opportunities for the 55 percent of Americans without college degrees or other   school credentials. “Strong economic growth doesn’t really matter if it’s not widely distributed,” Ms. Swonk said. “You can have a better economy but still not good enough for people who aren’t participating at all. ” A more comprehensive government barometer of unemployment, which includes workers forced to take   jobs because   positions were not available, stood at 9. 2 percent in December, a much higher level than at this point in past recoveries. But rising wages should counter the economic undertow, especially if the gains remain  . And while a 2. 9 percent increase may not sound like much, it goes much further because inflation is about 1. 7 percent. Economists expect wages to rise by up to 3. 5 percent in 2017  —   still below the gains many workers saw in the recovery of the   and in the   boom of the late 1990s. Although not reflected in the December figures, many   workers are getting raises this year because of state increases in the local minimum wage. Some of the increases were substantial, with Arizona, Maine and Washington each raising the floor by $1. 50 or more an hour. Even in California, where, at 50 cents an hour, the wage gain is not as steep, one in 10 workers has gotten a raise. And   gains can have a spillover effect, pushing up pay for workers just above the bottom salary tier. For all his criticism during the campaign of Mr. Obama’s economic stewardship, Mr. Trump will inherit an economy that is fundamentally solid. Consumer sentiment, corporate profits and the stock market are all at or near multiyear highs. On Friday, Wall Street embraced the       labor market figures, lifting the Dow Jones industrial average close to 20, 000 and a new nominal record. Investors and traders are watching the jobs data closely for clues about when the Federal Reserve Board may next raise interest rates. Last month, the Fed increased interest rates for only the second time in a decade, and policy makers signaled that three more increases could come this year. The wage gains are among the reasons the Fed is likely to stick to that plan, Ms. Swonk, the Chicago economist, said. Monthly job creation last year was well below the 236, 000 average for hiring in 2014 and 2015. But with the economy close to what Fed policy makers and other experts consider full employment, employers are increasing wages, to retain workers and to attract new ones. While the minimum wage increases provide a floor when it comes to pay, the ceiling continues to rise in fields like financial services, sales and technology, said Tom Gimbel, chief executive of LaSalle Network, a Chicago staffing company. “Across the board, I see more aggressive salaries being offered by corporations than at any time in the last 10 years,” Mr. Gimbel said. Seasoned sales representatives are drawing base salaries of $150, 000 a year, compared with $125, 000 two years ago, according to Mr. Gimbel.   software developers who once started at around $50, 000 a year can now command $70, 000. Other executives in the Midwest also report upward pressure on wages, including in grittier settings than the   fields where engineers and financial professionals cluster. At Lou Malnati’s Pizzeria, which has 46 restaurants in the Chicago area and one in Phoenix,   pay in hourly positions like server, cook and dishwasher is now about $11. 50 an hour, compared with $10 an hour three years ago. Mark Agnew, the chain’s president, said most of the increase was a result of the steady rise in Chicago’s minimum wage, which has gone from $8. 25 in 2014 to $10. 50 now. It is set to hit $13 by summer 2019. “We want to stay ahead of the minimum wage because we want to attract the best talent,” Mr. Agnew said. A substantial portion of the chain’s 3, 000 workers have been with the company for more than 10 years, a rarity in the   restaurant industry that is another benefit of the slightly higher wages. Economists and politicians have long debated whether raising the minimum wage ultimately hurts workers as companies cut positions or leave them unfilled in the face of rising labor costs. So far, that has not been the case at Lou Malnati’s, Mr. Agnew said. The chain has opened about a dozen new locations in the past three years, adding about 600 workers to its payroll over all. “It’s very tricky, and I know the minimum wage may erode job creation in some industries,” he said. “But in my own company, it hasn’t hurt hiring. ”"
121,17422,Is Your Workout Not Working? Maybe You’re a Non-Responder - The New York Times,New York Times,Gretchen Reynolds,2017-01-10,2017.0,1.0,,"Is your workout getting you nowhere? Research and lived experience indicate that many people who begin a new exercise program see little if any improvement in their health and fitness even after weeks of studiously sticking with their new routine. Among fitness scientists, these people are known as “nonresponders. ” Their bodies simply don’t respond to the exercise they are doing. And once discouraged, they often return to being nonexercisers. But an inspiring and timely new study suggests that nonresponders to one form of exercise can probably switch to another exercise regimen to which their body will respond. And a simple test you can do at home will help you determine how well your workout is working for you. One of the first major studies to report the phenomenon of nonresponders appeared in 2001, when researchers parsed data from dozens of previously published studies of running, cycling and other endurance exercise. The studies showed that, on aggregate, endurance training increased people’s endurance. But when the researchers examined individual outcomes, the variations were staggering. Some people had improved their endurance by as much as 100 percent, while others had actually become less fit, even though they were following the same workout routine. Age, sex and ethnicity had not mattered, the researchers noted. Young people and old had been outliers, as had women and men, black volunteers and white. Interestingly, nonresponse to endurance training ran in families, the researchers discovered, suggesting that genetics probably plays a significant role in how people’s bodies react to exercise. Since then, other researchers have found that people can have extremely erratic reactions to weight training regimens, with some packing on power and mass and others losing both. And a study published last year concentrating on brief bouts of intense interval training concluded that some people barely gained endurance with this type of workout, while others flourished, greatly augmenting their fitness. These studies, however, were not generally designed to tell us whether someone who failed to benefit from one form of exercise might do well with another. So for the new experiment, which was published in December in the journal PLOS One, researchers from Queen’s University in Kingston, Ontario, and the University of Ottawa decided to focus intently on whether a nonresponder to one form of exercise could benefit by switching to another. They began by gathering 21 healthy men and women and determining their VO2 max, a measure of how much oxygen the lungs can deliver to the muscles heart rates and other physiological parameters related to aerobic fitness. Then they had each volunteer complete two very different types of workouts. Each training regimen lasted three weeks, and the researchers waited several months before starting the next regimen, so that volunteers could return to their baseline fitness. One   routine involved typical endurance training: riding a stationary bicycle four times a week for 30 minutes at a moderately strenuous pace. The second type of exercise revolved around   intervals. Each volunteer completed eight   intervals of very hard pedaling on a stationary bicycle, with 10 seconds of rest after each bout. The intervals were brutal but brief. At the end of each   session, the researchers again checked each volunteer’s VO2 max and other fitness measures. As a group, they had gained admirable amounts of fitness from both workouts and to about the same extent. But individually, the responses varied considerably. About a third of the people had failed to show much if any improvement in one of the measures of fitness after three weeks of endurance training. Similarly, about a third had not improved their fitness much with interval training. And after each type of workout, some participants were found to be in worse shape. A majority of the participants, in other words, had failed to respond as expected after one of the workouts. But, importantly, no one had failed to respond at all. Every man and woman had measurably improved his or her fitness in some way after one of the sessions, if not the other. Those who had shown little response to endurance training generally showed a robust improvement after the interval sessions, and vice versa. These data suggest that “there is no     approach to exercise,” says Brendon Gurd, an associate professor of kinesiology at Queen’s University who oversaw the study. “But it does seem as if there is some size that fits everyone. ” The question is how to determine which form of exercise best fits you. The answer, Dr. Gurd says, is simple trial and error. Before beginning a new exercise routine, he says, measure your fitness. You can do this by briskly walking up several flights of stairs or quickly stepping onto and off a box three or four times. Then check your pulse. This is your baseline number. Now start working out. Walk. Jog. Attend interval training or spin classes. After about a month, Dr. Gurd says, repeat the stair or step test. Your pulse rate should be slower now. Your workout sessions should also be feeling easier. If not, you may be a nonresponder to your current exercise routine. In that case, switch things up, Dr. Gurd recommends. If you have primarily been walking, maybe try sprinting up a few flights of stairs and walking back down, which is a simple form of interval training. Or if you have been exercising with intervals and feeling no fitter, perhaps jog for a month or two. The message he hopes people will glean from his and other studies of exercise nonresponders “is not that you shouldn’t bother exercising because exercise might not help you,” Dr. Gurd says. “It does help everyone, once you find your own best exercise. ”"
122,17423,Beating of Disabled Teenager Highlights a Crime That Often Goes Unpunished - The New York Times,New York Times,Mitch Smith and Richard Pérez-Peña,2017-01-07,2017.0,1.0,,"CHICAGO  —   The appalling video seized the nation’s attention this week: A group of young people kidnapped, bound, beat, slashed, gagged, humiliated and threatened to kill a teenager with mental disabilities over nearly three days, and laughed about it as they carried out their acts. But by far, the most unusual thing about the episode, advocates for people with disabilities have said, was not the abuse itself, but the fact that it was recorded. Violence against people with disabilities is far more common than most people realize, advocates have said, and frequently goes undetected or is not taken seriously. The victim in the attack here, an    white man, suffered from schizophrenia and attention deficit disorder, prosecutors said in court papers filed on Friday. The four accused attackers, ranging in age from 18 to 24, are black. The four appeared on Friday in Cook County Circuit Court and Judge Maria Kuriakos Ciesil ordered them held without bail. The defendants are accused of multiple felonies, including hate crimes. Prosecutors said the victim, who was found by the police on Tuesday, was targeted based on his race and his disability. During a Facebook video made by one of the defendants, another can be heard denouncing white people, and, at one point, a man is heard saying he does not care if the victim is schizophrenic. “I’m wondering as I’m hearing this, ‘Where was the sense of decency?’ ” Judge Kuriakos Ciesil asked. In explaining her denial of bail, she added, “How do you put someone out there who has allegedly committed such horrible offenses against a person?” People with disabilities are more than twice as likely to be the victims of violent crimes as those without disabilities, according to a Justice Department report based on Census Bureau surveys. And people with mental disabilities are the most likely to be victimized. But some advocates claim the disparity is actually much greater, saying crimes against those with disabilities are less likely to be pursued by law enforcement. They believe people with disabilities may be unable to take part in a survey or go to the police, or may have trouble being understood. As a result, their complaints often are not taken seriously. “There are probably thousands of other cases just like this one in Chicago, and in some cases worse, that will never see the impact of the justice system because folks don’t know about it,” said Rebecca Cokley, the executive director of the National Council on Disability, a federal agency. “In a lot of cases with people with disabilities, the perpetrators are family members or caretakers, so what happens when the person who would have to take you to the police station is your abuser?” Advocates have said the underlying problem is a pervasive attitude, conscious or not, that people with disabilities are not fully human. They pointed to a recent case in Idaho, where a white high school football player was charged with shoving a coat hanger into the rectum of another teenager, who was black and had mental disabilities, after having harassed the student and directed racial slurs at him for months. Though the accused student was 18 at the time of the assault, he was sentenced to probation rather than prison. “We have, unfortunately, devalued disabled people forever, which means we devalue their suffering,” said Curt Decker, executive director of the National Disability Rights Network, a nonprofit advocacy group. “What we experience all the time is that police, prosecutors, judges say, ‘Oh, this case is hard, it’s not worth our trouble. This person is hard to understand, or they’re not credible, or they won’t stand up to  . ’” Mr. Decker said that when Congress spent years drafting, debating, and finally voting on hate crimes legislation, which passed in 2009, it was a struggle to ensure that it punished crimes singling out people with disabilities, as well as bias based on categories like race or sex.   of the 50 states have hate crimes laws, according to the   League, but 17 of them do not specify people with disabilities as a protected group. Vilissa Thompson, an organizer of the Harriet Tubman Collective, a coalition of advocates for disabled black people, said, “People are ignorant about the extent of violence against disabled people, but what’s worse is that there’s this kind of misplaced sympathy for the perpetrator, especially when it’s a parent or caregiver. ”"
125,17427,City to Close or Merge 9 Schools That Were in Support Program - The New York Times,New York Times,Kate Taylor,2017-01-07,2017.0,1.0,,"The city’s Education Department plans to close or merge nine schools next year that are part of its   turnaround initiative, among a group of 22 schools to be closed or merged, according to a document obtained by The New York Times. Mayor Bill de Blasio came into office saying that unlike his predecessor Michael R. Bloomberg, he would support struggling schools rather than close them, and he initiated the Renewal program in 2014 to offer extra money and services for 94 of the city’s   schools. “We reject the notion of giving up on any of our schools,” Mr. de Blasio said at the time. Instead, he said, the city would infuse the schools in the program with resources, including coaches to help teachers improve their practices, new staff members to tackle problems like attendance, and social services like dental clinics or counseling. He said his administration might still end up closing schools, but he suggested that most schools would be given three years to improve. The program is now halfway through its third year. The department assigned each school a set of benchmarks in areas like attendance, graduation rate and, for elementary and middle schools, performance on state reading and math exams. But the schools have shown uneven progress. Eight schools in the program met all of their targets last year, while four schools met none, and 17 others met only one or two out of six or seven targets. Many schools in the program have also seen their enrollment decline as families shun schools labeled failing. The city previously decided to close or merge eight Renewal schools, so the latest round of closings will bring to 17 the number of schools in the program that will no longer be operating, at least as before. Six of the schools will be closed entirely: Junior High School 162 Lola Rodriguez de Tio, which had been singled out by the state as persistently failing, and whose closing was previously announced Leadership Institute, a high school Junior High School 145 Arturo Toscanini and Monroe Academy for Visual Arts and Design, all in the Bronx and Middle School 584 and the Essence School, also a middle school, in Brooklyn. The schools to be closed are all   to be sure. In the   school year, only 8 percent of the students at J. H. S. 145 passed the state reading tests, and only 3 percent passed the state’s math tests. Even so, it is not clear that they are necessarily the worst among the schools in the program. All of the six schools met at least one of the goals assigned by the city last year. Some are being closed for low enrollment as well.  The three schools in the program to be merged are the Young Scholars Academy of the Bronx, a middle school Frederick Douglass Academy IV, a high school in Brooklyn and Automotive High School in Brooklyn. All three schools already share their buildings with the schools they are being merged into, which are not in the Renewal program. The city is also proposing to merge five other pairs of schools, none of which are in the Renewal program, but many of which have struggled with academic achievement and enrollment. The Education Department declined to comment on the decision to close or merge the schools. The Bloomberg administration closed many large schools to start new, small ones. Studies have found that many small schools had positive effects on graduation rates and college enrollment. But not all the small schools were successful. The current city schools chancellor, Carmen Fariña, has shown a preference for large schools and has said that some schools were too small to be sustainable. All of the closings and mergers will have to be approved by the Panel for Educational Policy, a citywide body. Aaron Pallas, a professor of sociology and education at Columbia University’s Teachers College, said, “The fact that the city thinks that it needs to do this for six out of the roughly 80 or so left suggests that things are not going as well as they’d like. ” At the same time, he said, “If these mergers and closures result in new schools that have a new kind of energy, perhaps different staff, perhaps a different culture, that may be better than trying to continue turning around schools that have been struggling for a very long time. ”"
126,17428,Kerry Lists Obama Era’s Diplomatic Successes. (Trump Opposes Them All.) - The New York Times,New York Times,Russell Goldman,2017-01-07,2017.0,1.0,,"In an exit memorandum reflecting on eight years of United States foreign policy, Secretary of State John Kerry enumerated the Obama administration’s diplomatic accomplishments. But that record may be weakened or overturned by   Donald J. Trump, who has denigrated many of President Obama’s policies. Here is a look at how the secretary and the   see the major foreign policy issues differently. Kerry: Mr. Kerry praised the 2015 deal that the United States brokered with Iran to curtail that country’s ability to produce nuclear weapons. Mr. Kerry wrote that before the deal was struck, Iran was less than “90 days away from having the material necessary to produce one nuclear weapon,” but “today they are at least a year away. ” He wrote on Thursday, “In reaching and implementing this deal, we took a major security threat off the table without firing a single shot. ” Trump: Mr. Trump made criticism of the nuclear deal a major talking point of his foreign policy in the presidential campaign. He has called the agreement “the worst deal ever negotiated. ” At a speech to the American Israel Public Affairs Committee in March, he said, “My No. 1 priority is to dismantle the disastrous deal with Iran. ” Later, he said he would renegotiate the agreement. Kerry: The secretary said that the United States tried to reset relations with Russia early in President Obama’s first term, but that a series of aggressions including “unprecedented cyber intrusions,” “military intervention in Syria,” and the “illegal occupation” of Ukraine impeded that effort. Trump: Mr. Trump has made improved relations with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia a cornerstone of his future foreign policy. After American intelligence agencies provided evidence that Russians hacked Democratic National Committee systems to help tip the election in his favor, Mr. Trump criticized the reliability of the intelligence community. He has praised Mr. Putin and said he would work closely with him to combat the Islamic State. Mr. Trump also seemed to upend American nuclear weapons policy when he declared in December: “Let it be an arms race. We will outmatch them at every pass and outlast them all. ” Kerry: Mr. Kerry devoted a significant portion of his memo to climate change, calling it “not just a threat to the future of our planet, but a growing and immediate threat to our national security. ” He lauded an agreement struck between President Obama and President Xi Jinping of China, which bolstered a global climate agreement reached in Paris in 2015 that he called the most “ambitious, inclusive climate agreement ever negotiated. ” Trump: Mr. Trump has called climate change a “hoax,” said he would “cancel” the Paris accords and vowed to dismantle the Environmental Protection Agency “in almost every form. ” His nominee to run that agency is Scott Pruitt, the Oklahoma attorney general and a close ally of the fossil fuel industry, who has led the legal battle against Mr. Obama’s   policies. Kerry: Though the Obama administration never fulfilled a promise to shutter the Guantánamo Bay detention center, Mr. Kerry wrote that ”no single action would do more to reaffirm our commitment to international human rights norms and remove a recruiting tool for terrorists than closing” the site. During Mr. Obama’s presidency, the number of detainees decreased to 59 from 242, with 20 approved for transfer. Trump: In a message posted to Twitter on Tuesday, Mr. Trump wrote: “There should be no further releases from Gitmo. These are extremely dangerous people and should not be allowed back onto the battlefield. ” Kerry: “It would be a moral failing of the highest caliber to turn our backs on those in need  —   including and especially from countries like Syria and Iraq,” Mr. Kerry wrote, adding that the United States had a “profound responsibility to help refugees. ” Trump: After the terrorist attack in San Bernardino, Calif. in December 2015, Mr. Trump called for “a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States. ” Later in the campaign, he said: “We must suspend immigration from regions linked with terrorism until a proven vetting method is in place. ”"
128,17430,Dozens of Inmates Killed as Prison Violence Escalates in Brazil - The New York Times,New York Times,Simon Romero,2017-01-16,2017.0,1.0,,"RIO DE JANEIRO  —   Some of the inmates were beheaded. Others had their hearts torn from their bodies. Gang leaders used the blood of their victims to write a nightmarish message of retribution: “Blood is paid for with blood. ” The harrowing scenes on Friday from the latest prison riot in Brazil, in which 31 inmates were killed in the northern state of Roraima in the Amazon River Basin, pushed the death toll to 93 in six days of mayhem in penitentiaries around the country. The bloodshed has shocked the country and is emerging as the most pressing crisis facing President Michel Temer, whose beleaguered government was already grappling with graft scandals, a weak economy and simmering anger over austerity measures. “The bloodshed is revealing a war between drug gangs, a failed prison system and a weak government,” said Rafael Alcadipani, a scholar who specializes in public security policies at Fundação Getúlio Vargas, a leading Brazilian university. “And now the horror is spreading. ” Prison violence that has spilled out into neighboring communities has been a perennial problem in Brazil. In 2006, street fighting between the police and First Capital Command, a   gang, left almost 200 people dead in São Paulo, causing chaos in the city of 20 million people. The killings in Roraima came just days after 56 men were killed in a massacre at a prison in the city of Manaus. In two different riots at prisons this week in the states of Amazonas and Paraíba, six men were also killed. The violence at the Monte Cristo Agricultural Penitentiary in Boa Vista, the capital of Roraima, adds to fears about an intensifying war between drug gangs for control of the cocaine trade in the Amazon region in Brazil. The latest episode is thought to involve fighting between First Capital Command, commonly known by its Portuguese initials, P. C. C. which has roots in the prisons of São Paulo in southeastern Brazil, and supporters of Red Command, a drug trafficking organization that has long held sway in Rio de Janeiro. The authorities, however, tried to play down the possibility that warring gangs were to blame. The gangs, which operate inside prisons as well as on the streets of many Brazilian cities, are battling for supremacy over the trade in cocaine smuggled into Brazil across the porous Amazonian frontier from countries like Bolivia, Colombia and Peru. Family of the North, an increasingly influential gang in the Amazon that has allied itself with Red Command, was responsible for the attack at the prison in Manaus, massacring dozens of rivals from the P. C. C. gang. The attack had been planned for months, according to text messages intercepted by intelligence agents. Mr. Temer, the president, has been chided for what some have called a   response to the crisis. He said nothing for two days about the killings in Manaus, before calling them a “dreadful accident” and seeking to deflect blame from public agencies because a private contractor runs the prison there. Just months after emerging victorious in the battle to impeach his predecessor, Dilma Rousseff, Mr. Temer is grappling with calls from some of his own allies to resign. In an effort to defend himself, he sent a message Thursday on Twitter listing synonyms for the word “accident”  —   tragedy, loss, disaster, disgrace and misfortune. Although the Manaus riot has fueled a debate over whether management of some prisons should be handed to private companies, the violence in Roraima casts scrutiny directly on state officials. The Boa Vista prison, which is run by the state, has a long history of deadly riots and inmate escapes. The prison was built for 700 inmates but currently holds about 1, 400. Carlos Paixão de Oliveira, a prosecutor in Roraima, publicly criticized the management of the facility in October, when inmates from the P. C. C. gang killed at least 10 rivals from Red Command. Mr. Oliveira suggested at the time that the prison should be demolished and replaced. “If they want, the inmates will carry out a new slaughter in there, because no one has control of that prison,” he said. Despite the writing in blood on Friday proclaiming the supremacy of the P. C. C. the authorities contended that the latest killings did not involve   between gangs but a power struggle within the P. C. C. itself, or an effort to project power by the gang. “We’ve been on guard about something like this for some time, transferring prisoners from Red Command to other units,” said Uziel Castro, the top security official in Roraima. “We think this had to do with an internal battle. ” Either way, the scenes from the Roraima penitentiary offered an unsettling reminder of how the bloodshed in the country’s prisons is a problem that has been building for decades, revealing a system hobbled by corruption, overcrowding and mismanagement. Human rights groups compare the current string of uprisings to the Carandiru prison massacre in 1992 in São Paulo, when the police stormed the facility and killed 111 inmates. An appeals court recently voided the convictions of 73 police officers for their participation in the killings. The problems in Brazil’s prisons that led to earlier episodes of carnage have intensified with the growing drug trade, security experts say. Brazil’s prison population has swelled this century as the authorities lock up more people on minor drug offenses. Brazil now has a prison population exceeding half a million, with about 40 percent of detainees awaiting trial. Drug gangs that originated in prisons are expanding their sway and battling one another for territorial control of the trade. “This war between the criminal factions is worsening,” said Antonio Cláudio Mariz de Oliveira, a former security official in São Paulo. “The problem is largely a result of the lack of attention towards the prison system, both by the government and the public. ” “People only react when there’s an episode like this,” said Mr. Mariz de Oliveira. “Then they forget about it until the next one. ” Indeed, some elected officials have expressed the hardened views held by   voters. José Melo, the governor of Amazonas State, said “there were no saints” among the dozens of inmates killed in the state’s prisons this week, calling the victims murderers, rapists or gang members. At the same time, officials in Mr. Temer’s administration have tried to play down the prison crisis. “The situation is not out of control,” said Justice Minister Alexandre de Moraes."
130,17432,How to Pounce on Best Credit Card Offers (Before Banks Pull Them) - The New York Times,New York Times,Ron Lieber,2017-01-10,2017.0,1.0,,"While many of us weren’t paying attention, some credit card   bonuses became so   large that the analysts at Bernstein Research wondered in November if the industry was afflicted with temporary insanity. One particular bit of madness  —   a Chase offer that effectively puts $1, 500 in your pocket without a lot of effort, if you are a relatively big spender  —   is close to ending, and many people have just a few more days to take advantage of it. But the mere existence of   bonuses on top of the points and perks that come with everyday spending raises a number of questions for consumers. Even if you thought you had had enough of   to get the best deals, shouldn’t you at least grab those 15   bills if you have the means? Or might the offers actually get better? And is it time to bet against the stocks of the maniac bankers who are tossing around offers like this? CHASE, TODAY? First things first: That giant bonus comes from the Chase Sapphire Reserve card. Here’s how it works (and don’t confuse it with the similarly named Preferred card): If the bank accepts your application, you have three months to spend $4, 000. Once you do, Chase hands over 100, 000 of its proprietary rewards points. Then you can trade them for $1, 500 worth of travel, as long as you book your flights or rooms through Chase. The card has a $450 annual fee, but it gives back $300 of it each year once you purchase at least that amount in travel. It also gives out a generous amount of points  —   three per dollar spent  —   on travel and dining. Plus, you can swap points for miles on many airlines if you want to take your chances with seat availability in those reward schemes. Other perks include access to some airport lounges and a rebate for fees you pay for TSA PreCheck, the expedited security screening, or Global Entry, which speeds international returns. In cardland, any offer this lucrative tends not to last. This week, Chase said it would cut the   bonus in half for anyone who applied online after Jan. 12 or in a branch (which isn’t possible for people in parts of the country where there are no Chase branches) after March 12. To be safe, the company suggests applying online by Jan. 11, before it flips the switch the next day. Why the change of heart on a product Chase introduced last summer? The company always said the bonus was an introductory offer, and the bank’s generosity led to a $200 million to $300 million hit to its earnings. So the window on a good thing is partly closing. So should you take advantage of it while you can? My wife and I both have done it and are glad we did. It has required some mental energy to channel the right amount of spending away from our current card and track the new bills so we don’t end up paying late. But there is nothing that focuses the mind quite like feeling that you are beating the system. This feeling of superiority may be delusional, given the amount of research that suggests that we pay more when we put things on plastic than when we pay with cash. But I consider myself above average in this regard, as we all probably do. Another big question: Does it make sense to stick with the Chase card, or ditch it after the bonuses clear? One useful exercise is to run your spending patterns (which your card company’s website ought to be able to divide into categories like dining, travel and groceries) through creditcardtuneup. com to compare the results with those of a number of leading rewards cards. It’s a great tool, but the site’s operator has its own opinions about how much a Chase point is worth versus the Starwood points that I collect on my primary American Express card. Your mileage may vary if you, say, swap Chase or Starwood points for   miles and then redeem them for $10, 000   plane tickets to a faraway country. Think about your goals for the next couple of years and evaluate accordingly. In our household, we are reserving judgment. That is (in part) because Starwood is in the middle of being acquired by Marriott, which faces the challenging task of combining two loyalty programs without driving away   frequent travelers. Sometime in the next year or so, we will find out what it is going to do. Standard disclaimers apply here, as always. Don’t carry a balance, since interest charges will generally eat up the value of the rewards and then some. Also, applying for too many cards in a short time could hurt your credit score a bit. IS THE MADNESS CATCHING? Gordon Smith, the chief executive of consumer and community banking at Chase, spent more than 25 years working at American Express, and it was plainly obvious that the bank was aiming Sapphire Reserve squarely at the Amex Platinum card. Indeed, less than two months after the Chase card appeared in August, Amex issued a news release announcing new benefits for Platinum card holders. Here is what it didn’t do, though: offer a   bribe to every new customer who wanted one of its cards. Its standard online offer is currently 40, 000 of its own proprietary points, which are 10, 000 fewer than what Chase’s new, lower bonus will be. (Yes, it’s hard to compare the value of different reward currencies, but these two aren’t that far apart, and many consumers never make the distinction and assume they are the same anyhow.) Some American Express customers have been luckier, though. Card industry bloggers report that the company has sometimes made targeted bonus offers of 100, 000 or even 150, 000 points. Leah Gerstner, an American Express spokeswoman, noted that the company had been in the premium card market for more than three decades, implying that it knew a thing or two about appropriate competitive responses to the latest shiny thing. “What’s worked for us is a mix of targeted   bonuses combined with a range of premium benefits and services,” Ms. Gerstner said. She added that the company had issued “record levels of new cards” while delivering “sustainable” economics to the company. In their report in November, the Bernstein Research analysts dangled the tantalizing possibility that American Express might begin some kind of price war, throwing its own   bonuses and privileges at customers. Now that Chase has lowered its   bonus, however, Kevin J. St. Pierre, a Bernstein managing director, thinks the chances of that are low. “They have inertia on their side, with a   customer base that is generally satisfied with their product and very satisfied with the service,” he said. “So how much do they need to tweak to defend that?” PITY NOT THE POOR BANKERS Shareholders (and consumers who are determined to be the least profitable customers of thriving, generous banks) probably shouldn’t panic about the ramifications of the banks’ largess at this point. Chase would not comment about the performance of Sapphire Reserve, owing to the requirement to stay silent before its coming earnings announcement. Still, it almost certainly modeled the possibility that some people would spend their   bonus and then stop using the card. The card’s   profitability will depend largely on what percentage of cardholders carry a balance  —   and how much and for how long. Mr. St. Pierre said he didn’t lose much sleep over a single,   card offering from a bank of this size. “They are so large that they can afford to experiment,” he said. “A few hundred million in any quarter is a cost of doing business, and they’ll use it, learn from it and improve the product from their perspective and move on. ” Citi’s own plastic pushers have already done a bit of this. Its competing Prestige card reduced some perks several months back, though it kept a    hotel benefit. “Our strategic focus is delivering products and experiences that create long, lasting relationships,” said Chris Fred, head of proprietary products for Citi’s cards unit. Bonus chasers and   card churners, it seems, are not particularly welcome. Still, the banks face an existential crisis of sorts. A generation of young adults grew up on debit cards, and banks are going to have to do something to get the millions of them who don’t need to carry a balance to switch to credit anyway. There aren’t a lot of great ways to do it other than throwing   bonuses and perks at them. The rest of us can keep an eye on the bonus offers via blogs like The Points Guy and View From the Wing or on forums like FlyerTalk and Reddit’s   pages. Then  —   when the going gets as good as it’s gotten in recent months and we want to go on a free vacation  —   we can sweep in and gleefully pick off the juiciest offers of all."
131,17433,‘I Thought I Was Impervious to Scams’: Readers Denounce India’s Phone Swindlers - The New York Times,New York Times,Hanna Ingber,2017-01-20,2017.0,1.0,,"Mel Craig’s    father has been tormented over the past year by swindlers calling him at home, threatening him if he did not send them more money. “Returned after a   trip to find receipts on the table for $300 worth of iTunes cards,” wrote Ms. Craig, a New York Times commenter in Washington, D. C. “Dad doesn’t even know what iTunes is. ” More than 1, 000 readers responded to Ellen Barry’s recent article on a call center in India that is being investigated for fraud against Americans. Many of the commenters, who responded on the article and on The Times’s Facebook post, said they, too, had received calls from strangers demanding payments or personal information. Some expressed sympathy for those who are conned, and others voiced anger at the criminals and a system that seems to do little to protect the vulnerable. Readers also shared their tactics for dealing with the calls. “Sometimes I give the scammer a made up credit card number one digit short of the full complement, then keep changing the sequence when they read it back,” Bruce in Cleveland wrote. “I can still make dinner while I’m doing this on speaker phone. ” Here is a selection of the responses. They have been edited and condensed.  —   Thomas E. Heines in Dallas, who has worked in information technology  —   Eric Beldoch in Ardsley, N. Y.  —   Aryan Nair via Facebook  —   Mel Craig in Washington  —   Richard Garner in Germantown Hills, Ill.  —   Thomas H. Williams in Annapolis, Md.  —   AMM in New York  —   Evelyn in Orlando  —   Ellen D. Murphy in Portland, Me.  —   Jeff in the Slope in New York  —   MNW in Connecticut  —   Joan Morrissey via Facebook  —   Ken in Mont Vernon, N. H.  —   Mary Ann Hymel in Bellevue, Wash.  —   Elizabeth in Washington  —   Crystal Means via Facebook  —   Mosselyn in Silicon Valley"
133,17435,Four Movies You Should Know About Before the Golden Globes - The New York Times,New York Times,Wesley Morris and Jenna Wortham,2017-01-06,2017.0,1.0,,"Last month, about 50 new movies opened in New York and Los Angeles. Some, like a Robert De Niro vehicle called “The Comedian,” showed up in one or a handful of theaters to qualify for Oscar consideration. Some showed up everywhere. (Hi, “Assassin’s Creed. ” Hello, “Rogue One. ”) Who’s got time to see them all? But just in time for Sunday’s Golden Globes broadcast, we plucked four movies from the glut to discuss on “Still Processing”: “Fences,” directed by and starring Denzel Washington the    romance “Passengers,” with Jennifer Lawrence and Chris Pratt the Los Angeles romantic musical “La La Land,” starring Emma Stone and Ryan Gosling and “Patriots Day,” about the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing, starring a bunch of people but especially Mark Wahlberg. Jenna calls that one “the perfect movie for our time. ” We like a couple. We’re mixed on another. And one we   hate. That’s life  —   at the movies, anyway. We also had to take a minute to express our heartfelt sympathies for  —   and total bafflement about  —   Mariah Carey’s New Year’s Eve debacle: so uncomfortable, so funny, so, so her. From a desktop or laptop, you can listen by pressing play on the button above. Or if you’re on a mobile device, the instructions below will help you find and subscribe to the series. On your iPhone or iPad: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a preloaded app called “Podcasts” with a purple icon. (This link may help.) 2. Search for the series. Tap on the “search” magnifying glass icon at the bottom of the screen, type in “Still Processing” and select it from the list of results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone free. You may want to adjust your notifications to be alerted when a new episode arrives. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, tap on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode. On your Android phone or tablet: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a preloaded app called “Play Music” with an    icon. (This link may help.) 2. Search for the series. Click on the magnifying glass icon at the top of the screen, search for “Still Processing” and select it from the list of results. You may have to scroll down to find the “Podcasts” search results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, click on the word “subscribe” to have new episodes sent to your phone free. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, click on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode."
135,17439,Trump Calls for Closer Relationship Between U.S. and Russia - The New York Times,New York Times,Nicholas Fandos,2017-01-08,2017.0,1.0,,"WASHINGTON  —   A day after the release of a damning intelligence report on Russia’s   efforts to influence the American election,   Donald J. Trump called on Saturday for a closer relationship between the two nations, saying only “stupid” people or “fools” would think this was unwise. The United States, Mr. Trump wrote in a series of Twitter messages Saturday morning, has “enough problems around the world without yet another one. ” He pledged that Russia would “respect us far more than they do now” after he is sworn in as president, and said that the two nations could perhaps work together on the international stage. For years, Russia has been anything but a willing partner of the United States. Relations became strained well before the   cyberattacks began nearly a year and a half ago, despite the Obama administration’s early effort to reset relations. After Russia’s intrusion into Ukraine and its annexation of Crimea in 2014, the United States and its allies levied broad sanctions against the Russian economy and blacklisted dozens of its citizens, including some close to the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin. President Obama added to those measures last month in retaliation for the hacking, expelling 35 suspected Russian intelligence operatives from the United States and imposing sanctions on two Russian intelligence services. Russia and the United States have also often been at odds over Moscow’s involvement in the war in Syria. Senior intelligence officials briefed Mr. Trump on their findings on Russian election interference on Friday, before releasing a declassified report that concluded that Mr. Putin had “ordered” a sprawling campaign intended to denigrate Hillary Clinton and aid Mr. Trump. Mr. Trump has consistently dismissed the intelligence agencies’ conclusions as politically motivated, but he appeared to soften that stance in a statement his transition team released after the briefing. He also seemingly conceded Russian involvement in the election, but he has taken pains to point out that there is no evidence that any vote tallies were altered, apparently seeking to avoid the suggestion that his victory was illegitimate. Mr. Trump has said repeatedly that it is time to “move on” from the focus on Russian meddling in the election, arguing that it has received such attention only because Democrats are embarrassed about their loss  —   an assertion he repeated on Twitter on Saturday. Late on Friday, he blamed the Democratic National Committee for the hacking of its computer systems, saying that “gross negligence” had allowed it to happen. Many Democrats said on Twitter that Mr. Trump was essentially engaging in  ."
136,17441,Senate Confirmation Hearings to Begin Without All Background Checks - The New York Times,New York Times,Jennifer Steinhauer and Eric Lichtblau,2017-01-08,2017.0,1.0,,"WASHINGTON  —   As Senate Republicans embark on a flurry of confirmation hearings this week, several of Donald J. Trump’s appointees have yet to complete the background checks and ethics clearances customarily required before the Senate begins to consider   nominees. Republicans, who are expected to hold up to five hearings on Wednesday alone, say they simply want to ensure that the new president has a team in place as soon as possible. “I believe all the  ’s cabinet appointments will be confirmed,” Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, said. But Democrats are calling for the process to be slowed and for the hearings to be spread out. That, they say, would allow more time to vet the nominees. “Our first overarching focus is getting tax returns and ethics forms,” said Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota. In a letter to Senators Chuck Schumer of New York and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, the leader of the Office of Government Ethics, Walter M. Shaub Jr. said on Friday that “the announced hearing schedule for several nominees who have not completed the ethics review process is of great concern to me. ” He said the packed schedule had put “undue pressure” on the office to rush its reviews of the nominees and he knew of no other occasion in the office’s four decades when the Senate had held a confirmation hearing before the review was completed. Mr. Schumer responded on Saturday by saying that the letter had made clear that the Trump transition team colluded with Senate Republicans to “jam through” the nominees. Several of the nominees are millionaires or billionaires and have vast webs of financial interests that must be untangled. The Trump transition team issued a statement on Saturday evening defending its handling of the nomination process. Richard W. Painter, a law professor at the University of Minnesota who served as chief ethics counsel to President George W. Bush, said he thought none of the nominees could receive a full vote on the Senate floor before the vetting was complete. Norman Eisen, Mr. Obama’s ethics counsel in his first term, said the paperwork delays were “totally  . ” The status of the background checks and ethical clearances can change by the day. Republicans say they expect the missing documents to be submitted for all the nominees eventually. The hearings are scheduled to begin on Tuesday, with testimony from Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, the nominee for attorney general, and Gen. John F. Kelly, the pick for homeland security secretary. On Wednesday, the parade of nominees is expected to include Rex W. Tillerson, the choice for secretary of state Betsy DeVos, the pick for education secretary and Representative Mike Pompeo of Kansas, the nominee to lead the C. I. A. Later in the week, the billionaire investor Wilbur L. Ross Jr. chosen as commerce secretary, and Andrew F. Puzder, the labor secretary pick, are scheduled to come before congressional panels. While some of Mr. Trump’s nominees, notably Representative Tom Price of Georgia, the choice for health secretary and an ardent opponent of the Affordable Care Act, are certain to receive hostile receptions, large numbers of Democrats will probably vote for many others. Still, Democrats are preparing a furious assault against the nominees by going after the   himself and trying to drive a wedge between them over his most incendiary promises, like banning Muslim immigrants and bringing back torture. “Where will they come down?” Mr. Schumer, the new Democratic leader, asked in an interview. “Will they try to persuade the president that’s the wrong way to take America?” Democrats plan to keep the focus on the   to a degree with few historical parallels. New presidents usually serve as a backdrop this year, by contrast, Mr. Trump’s words will loom over the hearings as Democrats press the nominees to take a position on them. Democrats have little chance of blocking any of the nominees, having given up the use of the filibuster in such cases when they were in the majority, but they say Mr. Trump has handed them ample political ammunition. Mr. Sessions is certain to be asked whether he, as attorney general, would make good on Mr. Trump’s pledges to get a special counsel to “jail” Hillary Clinton over her email server. General Kelly can expect questions about whether he favors Mr. Trump’s call to build a wall on the Mexican border and create a database on Muslims. Mr. Pompeo is likely to be asked about his views on Mr. Trump’s support for waterboarding and his skepticism about the intelligence agencies’ findings on Russian election meddling. Mr. Tillerson will probably face a grilling over Mr. Trump’s vow to “cancel” the Paris climate accord. Mr. Tillerson has spent hours trying to quietly assure lawmakers that he would take a more distant stance than Mr. Trump on the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, with whom Mr. Tillerson had close relations as the head of Exxon Mobil. The Trump transition team, which did not comment on the background checks, is bracing its nominees for questions about the  ’s more controversial positions, according to people with knowledge of the preparations. But officials would not say what tack the nominees would take in responding. “I have no doubt that the   and a number of his comments will come up,” said Sarah Isgur Flores, a spokeswoman for Mr. Sessions’s confirmation team. “But Senator Sessions has a long record of service himself. ” Mr. Sessions will testify before the Judiciary Committee, which is generally friendly territory for sitting senators. But he is likely to face blistering questions from Democrats who are concerned about his civil rights record. In the 1980s, racially charged accusations derailed his nomination to a federal judgeship. Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the top Democrat on the Judiciary Committee, said she would press Mr. Sessions to say where he stood on Mr. Trump’s pledges to have a special counsel further investigate Mrs. Clinton’s emails. “Hillary’s situation is done, and other than some kind of gross retribution, there’s no reason for that to even be something to look at,” Ms. Feinstein said in an interview. By posing tough questions, said Sarah A. Binder, a political scholar at George Washington University, Democrats will try to lure the nominees into inflicting political damage on themselves by adopting some of Mr. Trump’s more divisive language. She said the terrain was so risky that the nominees might be better served by adopting a stance usually seen only from judicial nominees: “Don’t take a position. ” Democrats intend to use all the procedural moves available to slow the process on the Senate floor, possibly spending up to 30 hours per nominee, denying Mr. Trump a full cabinet when he takes office. Republicans are indignant. “Holding up confirmations just for delay’s sake is irresponsible and it is dangerous,” said Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas. He added, “This is a dangerous world we are living in, and why in the world would we want to make it even more dangerous just to let our colleagues delay for delay’s sake   Trump getting to fill his cabinet, particularly these important national security offices?”"
138,17443,The Major Potential Impact of a Corporate Tax Overhaul - The New York Times,New York Times,Neil Irwin,2017-01-07,2017.0,1.0,,"The United States system for taxing businesses is a mess. If there’s one thing nearly everyone can agree upon, it is that. The current corporate income tax manages the weird trick of both taxing companies at a higher statutory rate than other advanced countries while collecting less money, as a percentage of the overall economy, than most of them. It is infinitely complicated and it gives companies incentives to borrow too much money and move operations to countries with lower tax rates. Now, the moment for trying to fix all of that appears to have arrived. With the House, Senate and presidency all soon to be in Republican hands and with all agreeing that a major tax bill is a top priority, some kind of change appears likely to happen. And it may turn out to be a very big deal, particularly if a tax plan that House Republicans proposed last summer becomes the core of new legislation. Among Washington’s lobbying shops and policy analysis crowd, it’s known as a “  cash flow tax with border adjustment. ” It’s easier to think of it as the most substantial reworking of how businesses are taxed since the corporate income tax was introduced a century ago. And it could, if enacted, have big effects not just in the tax departments of major corporations but in global financial markets and the aisles of your local Walmart. This possible revamping of the corporate tax code is less politically polarizing than the debates sure to unfold in the months ahead over health care, or even over individual income taxes. But the consequences for business  —   and for the   trajectory of the economy  —   are huge. The basic idea behind a D. B. C. F. T. (to use the abbreviation that has taken hold in a particularly nerdy corner of Twitter) is this: Right now companies are taxed based on their income generated in the United States. But there are countless tricks that corporate accountants can play to reduce the income companies report and to reduce their tax burden, and those tricks distort the economy. Two prime examples are transferring intellectual property to overseas holding companies and engaging in corporate inversions that move a company’s legal headquarters to a country with lower taxes. Moreover, because interest payments on debt are   the current system makes it appealing to take on as much debt as possible, even though that can increase the risk of bankruptcy when a downturn comes along. The House Republicans’ approach, instead of taxing the    corporate income, goes after a firm’s domestic cash flow: money that comes in from sales within the United States borders minus money that goes out to pay employees and buy supplies and so forth. There’s no incentive to play games with overseas companies that exist only to exploit tax differences or to relocate production to countries with lower taxes because you’ll be taxed on things you sell in the United States, regardless. “With an income tax, one of the key issues is ‘how do you measure income,’ ” said Alan Auerbach, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley, who is a leading advocate of the idea. “But with cash flow you just follow the money. ” And the tax, Mr. Auerbach argues, could spur business investment while not encouraging companies to rely on debt. It allows companies to enjoy the tax savings of capital investments immediately rather than depreciating them over time. And it doesn’t give favorable treatment to debt, as opposed to equity. That alone would amount to a major shift in the tax system. Congressional staff members, the incoming administration and armies of lobbyists will spend countless hours hammering out the details of any such proposal: how it might be phased in, and how to treat financial services, and much more. Some of the most complex, and politically problematic, elements of the plan revolve around its treatment of international trade, which creates winners and losers. And some of those potential losers are powerful. Consider what border adjustment means: When an American company exports goods under this new tax system, it would not pay any taxes on its international sales, while its imports would be taxed. So a company that spent $80 making something that it sold overseas for $100 would pay no tax on its earnings. A company that imported goods worth $80 from abroad and them sold them domestically for $100 would pay tax on the full $100. At first glance this looks as if it would boost exports and reduce the trade deficit. Indeed, it might prove politically promising for advocates of the strategy to pitch the plan as one that would do this. Many economists think it won’t work that way, however. That’s because as soon as a    tax with border adjustment looks likely to become law, the value of the dollar should rise in currency markets. And that stronger dollar could eliminate the apparent     effects of the tax. The dollar could rise by, say, 20 to 25 percent, and the trade balance could remain about where it started. Essentially, moving to this system means betting on a “textbook economic theory,” as analysts at Evercore ISI put it, becoming a reality even though the effect hasn’t been tested in practice. If the dollar doesn’t strengthen as expected, for example,   industries, especially those with lean profit margins, could face disaster. That helps explain why some of the stiffest opposition to this tax overhaul is coming from the retail industry. Essentially, economists are telling them “trust us, our models say the currency will adjust and it will all come out in the wash,” but if the models are wrong, for companies like Walmart, Target and many others that sell large volumes of imported goods, their viability could be threatened. If the models turn out to be right, there is a different set of risks. The United States dollar is the linchpin of the global financial system, and a large move in its value triggered by changes in domestic tax policy could have unforeseen effects. Many companies worldwide, especially banks and especially in emerging markets, have debt denominated in dollars, which would become more of a burden after a new dollar appreciation. A big dollar rise would also effectively shift trillions in wealth from American investments overseas toward global investors with assets in the United States. As Jared Bernstein of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities has noted, we don’t really know what the distributional consequences of this tax overhaul would be. It could increase the costs of imported goods that the poor spend a disproportionate portion of their income on, like clothing and gasoline. That would be bad news for poorer Americans even as it makes the overall economy more efficient. There’s still a lot of work to be done to understand the   consequences of the D. B. C. F. T. (also, work to be done to find a catchier name). But there’s a broader point about the nature of any major policy reform. The benefits of a reworked corporate tax code would emerge slowly these disruptions and costs could arrive almost instantly. No matter the outcome, 2017 will be a fascinating year in which core components of the tax system  —   with   economic consequences  —   will be up for grabs."
139,17444,Trump Insists Mexico Will Pay for Wall After U.S. Begins the Work - The New York Times,New York Times,Michael D. Shear and Emmarie Huetteman,2017-01-07,2017.0,1.0,,"WASHINGTON  —   As congressional Republicans on Friday discussed quickly moving ahead with plans for a southern border wall using money included in this year’s spending bills,   Donald J. Trump insisted that Mexico would ultimately pay for its construction. “We’re going to get reimbursed,” Mr. Trump said during a brief telephone interview. “But I don’t want to wait that long. But you start, and then you get reimbursed. ” The congressional Republicans’ talk led to speculation that Mr. Trump was retreating on his campaign promise to make Mexico pay for the wall. Mr. Trump insisted he is not. Republicans have balked at increases in domestic spending during the Obama administration and are unlikely to enthusiastically rally behind a proposal that could require billions of taxpayer dollars. Building a wall to keep out unauthorized immigrants could also face intense opposition from a bipartisan coalition in Congress that argues that a vast barrier along the border would be ineffective in stopping people who are determined to enter the country illegally and would represent a symbolic affront to the idea that the United States is a welcoming country that embraces immigration. In the interview, Mr. Trump vowed that Mexico would ultimately reimburse the United States. He said that payment would most likely emerge from his efforts to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement with the Mexican government. “It’s going to be part of everything,” Mr. Trump said of the cost of building the wall. “We are going to be making a much better deal. It’s a deal that never should have been signed. ” But he said that the trade negotiations would take time and that he supported the idea of using taxpayer money to begin construction of the border wall “in order to speed up the process. ” The full cost of a wall as described by Mr. Trump could be enormous. Attaching such a charged issue to annual, mandatory government funding measures could instigate a risky political fight. Those who want to block money for the wall by holding up the bills could find themselves accused of shutting down the government. The Government Accountability Office has estimated it could cost $6. 5 million per mile to build a   fence, with an additional $4. 2 million per mile for roads and more fencing, according to congressional officials. Those estimates do not include maintenance of the fence along the nearly   border with Mexico. “The chairman and the committee have no interest in threatening a shutdown,” said Jennifer Hing, a spokeswoman for the House Appropriations Committee, referring to Representative Rodney Frelinghuysen, Republican of New Jersey and the committee’s new chairman. If funding for the border wall is included in spending bills this spring, it would provide money to begin construction on a barrier that was authorized by legislation passed in 2006, but was never completed. Ms. Hing said neither Mr. Trump’s transition team nor Republican leaders had asked for funding to build a wall on the Mexican border. “If and when a proposal is received, we will take a careful look at it,” she said in an email on Friday. At a rally in August in Phoenix, hours after meeting with President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico, Mr. Trump vowed that America’s southern neighbor would bear the financial burden of securing the border. “Mexico will pay for the wall, believe me  —   100 percent  —   they don’t know it yet, but they will pay for the wall,” Mr. Trump said. “They’re great people, and great leaders, but they will pay for the wall. ” In a Twitter post on Friday, Mr. Trump mocked news reports about the possible taxpayer funding of the border barrier, suggesting that Mexico would be forced to reimburse the American government for any costs incurred in building the wall. “The dishonest media does not report that any money spent on building the Great Wall (for sake of speed) will be paid back by Mexico later!” he wrote early Friday. Vicente Fox, who was Mexico’s president from 2000 until 2006, responded to Mr. Trump’s Twitter message with a barrage of outraged posts that became an internet talking point on their own. In one of them, he made reference to the intelligence agency reports about Russian meddling in the 2016 election. “Sr Trump, the intelligence report is devastating,” Mr. Fox said. “Losing election by more than 3M votes and in addition this. Are you a legitimate president?” Representative Chris Collins, Republican of New York and one of Mr. Trump’s liaisons on Capitol Hill, said on Friday morning that members of his party in Congress were eager to get moving on construction of a border wall, even if that meant using taxpayer money to finance it. In an appearance on the CNN program “New Day,” Mr. Collins said it should come as no surprise to anyone that the United States government would have to pay for building the wall. “Of course, we have to pay the bills,” he said. “We’re building the wall. ” As a candidate, Mr. Trump’s promise to build a wall to keep out immigrants from Mexico was one of his most powerful speaking points. He often used it at rallies to whip up his supporters and bolster his argument that illegal immigration was damaging the United States. His repeated pledge to make Mexico pay was in part a way to rebut one of the central criticisms of a border wall  —   that its cost could run into the many billions of dollars. Democrats slammed the reports that Mr. Trump would ask Congress to fund the project. “If President Trump asks Congress to approve taxpayer dollars to build a wall, which he has always said would not be paid for by U. S. taxpayers, we will carefully review the request to determine if these taxpayer dollars would be better spent on building hospitals to care for our veterans, roads and bridges to help taxpayers get to work, and for N. I. H. to find cures for cancer,” Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, the top Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, said in a statement. Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader, said she thought even Republicans might balk at spending what she said could be $14 billion on a wall. “I think that’s a heavy sell,” she said. “I think that’s a tough sell for them. ”"
140,17445,Scientists Say the Clock of Aging May Be Reversible - The New York Times,New York Times,Nicholas Wade,2017-04-14,2017.0,4.0,,"At the Salk Institute in La Jolla, Calif. scientists are trying to get time to run backward. Biological time, that is. In the first attempt to reverse aging by reprogramming the genome, they have rejuvenated the organs of mice and lengthened their life spans by 30 percent. The technique, which requires genetic engineering, cannot be applied directly to people, but the achievement points toward better understanding of human aging and the possibility of rejuvenating human tissues by other means. The Salk team’s discovery, reported in the Thursday issue of the journal Cell, is “novel and exciting,” said Jan Vijg, an expert on aging at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in New York. Leonard Guarente, who studies the biology of aging at M. I. T. said, “This is huge,” citing the novelty of the finding and the opportunity it creates to slow down, if not reverse, aging. “It’s a pretty remarkable finding, and if it holds up it could be quite important in the history of aging research,” Dr. Guarente said. The finding is based on the heterodox idea that aging is not irreversible and that an animal’s biological clock can in principle be wound back to a more youthful state. The aging process is clocklike in the sense that a steady accumulation of changes eventually degrades the efficiency of the body’s cells. In one of the deepest mysteries of biology, the clock’s hands are always set back to zero at conception: However old the parents and their reproductive cells, a fertilized egg is free of all marks of age. Ten years ago, the Japanese biologist Shinya Yamanaka amazed researchers by identifying four critical genes that reset the clock of the fertilized egg. The four genes are so powerful that they will reprogram even the genome of skin or intestinal cells back to the embryonic state. Dr. Yamanaka’s method is now routinely used to change adult tissue cells into cells very similar to the embryonic stem cells produced in the first few divisions of a fertilized egg. Scientists next began to wonder if the four Yamanaka genes could be applied not just to cells in glassware but to a whole animal. The results were disastrous. As two groups of researchers reported in 2013 and 2014, the animals all died, some because their adult tissue cells had lost their identity and others from cancer. Embryonic cells are primed for rapid growth, which easily becomes uncontrolled. But at the Salk Institute, Juan Carlos Izpisua Belmonte had been contemplating a different approach. He has long been interested in regeneration, the phenomenon in which certain animals, like lizards and fish, can regenerate lost tails or limbs. The cells near the lost appendage revert to a stage midway between an embryonic cell, which is open to all fates, and an adult cell, which is committed to being a particular type of cell, before rebuilding the missing limb. This partial reprogramming suggested to him that reprogramming is a stepwise process, and that a small dose of the Yamanaka factors might rejuvenate cells without the total reprogramming that converts cells to the embryonic state. With Alejandro Ocampo and other Salk researchers, Dr. Izpisua Belmonte has spent five years devising ways to deliver a nonlethal dose of Yamanaka factors to mice. The solution his team developed was to genetically engineer mice with extra copies of the four Yamanaka genes, and to have the genes activated only when the mice received a certain drug in their drinking water, applied just two days a week. The Salk team worked first with mice that age prematurely, so as to get quick results. “What we saw is that the animal has fewer signs of aging, healthier organs, and at the end of the experiment we could see they had lived 30 percent longer than control mice,” Dr. Izpisua Belmonte said. The team also saw improved organ health in normal mice but, because the mice are still living, could not yet say if longevity was extended. Dr. Izpisua Belmonte believes these beneficial effects have been obtained by resetting the clock of the aging process. The clock is created by the epigenome, the system of proteins that clads the cell’s DNA and controls which genes are active and which are suppressed. When an egg develops into a whole animal, the epigenome plays a critical role by letting a heart cell, say, activate just the genes specific to its role but switching off all the genes used by other types of cells. This process lets the embryo’s cells differentiate into all the various types of cells required by the adult body. The epigenome is also involved throughout life in maintaining each cell and letting it switch genes on and off as required for its housekeeping duties. The epigenome itself is controlled by agents that add or subtract chemical groups, known as marks, to its proteins. Only in the last few years have biologists come to realize that the state of the epigenome may be a major cause of aging. If the epigenome is damaged, perhaps by accumulating too many marks, the cell’s efficiency is degraded. Dr. Izpisua Belmonte sees the epigenome as being like a manuscript that is continually edited. “At the end of life there are many marks and it is difficult for the cell to read them,” he said. What the Yamanaka genes are doing in his mice, he believes, is eliminating the extra marks, thus reverting the cell to a more youthful state. The Salk biologists “do indeed provide what I believe to be the first evidence that partial reprogramming of the genome ameliorated symptoms of tissue degeneration and improved regenerative capacity,” Dr. Vijg said. But he cautioned the   mice used in the study might not be fully representative of ordinary aging. Dr. Guarente said it was more likely that the Yamanaka genes were not erasing the epigenomic marks directly, but rather were activating the genes which are responsible for the immense health and vitality of embryonic cells. This gene activation is a natural function of the Yamanaka factors. It is these embryonic   genes that are rejuvenating the tissues in the mice, Dr. Guarente suggested, and causing changes in the epigenome through their activity. Thomas A. Rando, an expert on stem cells and aging at Stanford, said that it should be possible in theory to uncouple the differentiation program and the aging process, and that “if that’s what’s happening, this is the first demonstration of that. ” Dr. Izpisua Belmonte said he was testing drugs to see if he could achieve the same rejuvenation as with the Yamanaka factors. The use of chemicals “will be more translatable to human therapies and clinical applications,” he said."
141,17446,Why You Will Marry the Wrong Person - The New York Times,New York Times,Alain de Botton,2017-01-09,2017.0,1.0,,"IT’S one of the things we are most afraid might happen to us. We go to great lengths to avoid it. And yet we do it all the same: We marry the wrong person. Partly, it’s because we have a bewildering array of problems that emerge when we try to get close to others. We seem normal only to those who don’t know us very well. In a wiser, more   society than our own, a standard question on any early dinner date would be: “And how are you crazy?” Perhaps we have a latent tendency to get furious when someone disagrees with us or can relax only when we are working perhaps we’re tricky about intimacy after sex or clam up in response to humiliation. Nobody’s perfect. The problem is that before marriage, we rarely delve into our complexities. Whenever casual relationships threaten to reveal our flaws, we blame our partners and call it a day. As for our friends, they don’t care enough to do the hard work of enlightening us. One of the privileges of being on our own is therefore the sincere impression that we are really quite easy to live with. Our partners are no more  . Naturally, we make a stab at trying to understand them. We visit their families. We look at their photos, we meet their college friends. All this contributes to a sense that we’ve done our homework. We haven’t. Marriage ends up as a hopeful, generous, infinitely kind gamble taken by two people who don’t know yet who they are or who the other might be, binding themselves to a future they cannot conceive of and have carefully avoided investigating. For most of recorded history, people married for logical sorts of reasons: because her parcel of land adjoined yours, his family had a flourishing business, her father was the magistrate in town, there was a castle to keep up, or both sets of parents subscribed to the same interpretation of a holy text. And from such reasonable marriages, there flowed loneliness, infidelity, abuse, hardness of heart and screams heard through the nursery doors. The marriage of reason was not, in hindsight, reasonable at all it was often expedient,   snobbish and exploitative. That is why what has replaced it  —   the marriage of feeling  —   has largely been spared the need to account for itself. What matters in the marriage of feeling is that two people are drawn to each other by an overwhelming instinct and know in their hearts that it is right. Indeed, the more imprudent a marriage appears (perhaps it’s been only six months since they met one of them has no job or both are barely out of their teens) the safer it can feel. Recklessness is taken as a counterweight to all the errors of reason, that catalyst of misery, that accountant’s demand. The prestige of instinct is the traumatized reaction against too many centuries of unreasonable reason. But though we believe ourselves to be seeking happiness in marriage, it isn’t that simple. What we really seek is familiarity  —   which may well complicate any plans we might have had for happiness. We are looking to recreate, within our adult relationships, the feelings we knew so well in childhood. The love most of us will have tasted early on was often confused with other, more destructive dynamics: feelings of wanting to help an adult who was out of control, of being deprived of a parent’s warmth or scared of his anger, of not feeling secure enough to communicate our wishes. How logical, then, that we should as   find ourselves rejecting certain candidates for marriage not because they are wrong but because they are too right  —   too balanced, mature, understanding and reliable  —   given that in our hearts, such rightness feels foreign. We marry the wrong people because we don’t associate being loved with feeling happy. We make mistakes, too, because we are so lonely. No one can be in an optimal frame of mind to choose a partner when remaining single feels unbearable. We have to be wholly at peace with the prospect of many years of solitude in order to be appropriately picky otherwise, we risk loving no longer being single rather more than we love the partner who spared us that fate. Finally, we marry to make a nice feeling permanent. We imagine that marriage will help us to bottle the joy we felt when the thought of proposing first came to us: Perhaps we were in Venice, on the lagoon, in a motorboat, with the evening sun throwing glitter across the sea, chatting about aspects of our souls no one ever seemed to have grasped before, with the prospect of dinner in a risotto place a little later. We married to make such sensations permanent but failed to see that there was no solid connection between these feelings and the institution of marriage. Indeed, marriage tends decisively to move us onto another, very different and more administrative plane, which perhaps unfolds in a suburban house, with a long commute and maddening children who kill the passion from which they emerged. The only ingredient in common is the partner. And that might have been the wrong ingredient to bottle. The good news is that it doesn’t matter if we find we have married the wrong person. We mustn’t abandon him or her, only the founding Romantic idea upon which the Western understanding of marriage has been based the last 250 years: that a perfect being exists who can meet all our needs and satisfy our every yearning. We need to swap the Romantic view for a tragic (and at points comedic) awareness that every human will frustrate, anger, annoy, madden and disappoint us  —   and we will (without any malice) do the same to them. There can be no end to our sense of emptiness and incompleteness. But none of this is unusual or grounds for divorce. Choosing whom to commit ourselves to is merely a case of identifying which particular variety of suffering we would most like to sacrifice ourselves for. This philosophy of pessimism offers a solution to a lot of distress and agitation around marriage. It might sound odd, but pessimism relieves the excessive imaginative pressure that our romantic culture places upon marriage. The failure of one particular partner to save us from our grief and melancholy is not an argument against that person and no sign that a union deserves to fail or be upgraded. The person who is best suited to us is not the person who shares our every taste (he or she doesn’t exist) but the person who can negotiate differences in taste intelligently  —   the person who is good at disagreement. Rather than some notional idea of perfect complementarity, it is the capacity to tolerate differences with generosity that is the true marker of the “not overly wrong” person. Compatibility is an achievement of love it must not be its precondition. Romanticism has been unhelpful to us it is a harsh philosophy. It has made a lot of what we go through in marriage seem exceptional and appalling. We end up lonely and convinced that our union, with its imperfections, is not “normal. ” We should learn to accommodate ourselves to “wrongness,” striving always to adopt a more forgiving, humorous and kindly perspective on its multiple examples in ourselves and in our partners."
144,17449,Naomie Harris: A Chameleon on Screen and Off - The New York Times,New York Times,Bee Shapiro,2017-01-25,2017.0,1.0,,"The British actress Naomie Harris, 40, might have splashed on the scene as the Bond girl Moneypenny, but these days she is banking on riskier roles. Her turn as a crack addict in the lauded “Moonlight” earned her supporting actress nods for the Critics’ Choice Awards, Screen Actors Guild Awards and the Golden Globes, on Sunday. So, too, her red carpet style will keep you guessing. Friend to cutouts, splashy prints, allover sequins, tuxedos and plunging necklines, Ms. Harris seems determined to avoid being typecast. And the fashion establishment appears to love her chameleonic quality. She sat front row at Christian Dior and Michael Kors, and she attended the Met Gala with Burberry. Of course, Ms. Harris doesn’t accomplish her sartorial variety on her own. She has been working with Nola Singer, also a close friend, for the last five years. “She loves to experiment,” Ms. Singer said of their choices. “It’s not so serious. If I tell her someone is a new designer, she gets excited. She gets that this is a kind of freedom. That’s beautiful about her. ” Ms. Singer, who is based in Los Angeles, styled many of Ms. Harris’s looks over the past year, but the actress also worked with Micaela Erlanger, Lupita Nyong’o’s   for her “Collateral Beauty” press tour. With Ms. Singer, Ms. Harris has favored simple fitted silhouettes but often lets color do the talking. Witness a sequined goldenrod Ralph Lauren halterneck dress worn to the Hollywood Foreign Press   cocktail party in November. “Every actress was at that event, and she really stood out, not because she was trying but because of that color, and because it flattered her figure  —   her arms!  —   without showing too much skin,” Ms. Singer said. No   triceps dips were needed for the visual statement made by a Gucci silver metallic tuxedo at the Hollywood Film Awards the same month. Ms. Singer said the outfit, with its sharp tailoring and lion embroidered on the back, was a nod to Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign. “It was about women being empowered,” she said. Though Ms. Harris knows her way around a pantsuit (see also a white Emanuel Ungaro option at Variety’s Women of Power Luncheon, and a white   Dolce  Gabbana number worn to the TimesTalks event for “Moonlight”) occasionally she likes to go retro. In the navy Carolina Herrera ball gown she wore (with Christian Louboutin flats) to the Governors Awards in November, she was having an Old Hollywood meets modern practicalities moment. Less successful are her quirky moments. An orange Gucci minidress with a frilly black neckline that she wore at the British Independent Film Awards and a brown print Rodarte with    white bust at the “Collateral Beauty” London premiere read   on her lithe frame. Ms. Erlanger’s choice for the “Collateral Beauty” New York premiere was more on point: a neon floral Rosie Assoulin dress that ended above the ankle with Dick   pumps. Sure it was December, but what’s a little   chill when an   campaign is at stake? More unexpected picks with Ms. Erlanger included an offbeat (perhaps dated?) Stella McCartney strapless black bodice with sheer skirt design for the Critics’ Choice Awards last month, and a winning gold sequined tunic and pants by Monse at the Gotham Independent Film Awards in November. And if her predictability is in her unpredictability, Ms. Harris is throwing another wrench in for awards season. She is going back to Ms. Singer but adding the New York stylist Laura Jones, known for her work with Alicia Keys, to her team. It will be Ms. Harris’s first time working with Ms. Jones."
145,17450,U.S. Consulate Official Shot and Wounded in Mexico - The New York Times,New York Times,Elisabeth Malkin,2017-01-08,2017.0,1.0,,"MEXICO CITY  —   An official working at the United States consulate in Guadalajara, the   city in Mexico, was shot and wounded on Friday evening by a young man who stalked him in the parking lot of a shopping mall and then fired as he drove out. The State Department official, who was not identified, was in stable condition after the shooting, a spokeswoman from the United States Embassy in Mexico City said on Saturday. Neither embassy officials nor the Mexican attorney general’s office commented on a possible motive. Guadalajara is the capital of Jalisco, the headquarters of the New Generation Jalisco cartel, an organized crime gang that has carried out violent attacks on the Mexican military and police over the past two years. But residents of the city have rarely been a focus of cartel violence. Security footage released by the consulate on its Facebook page shows the gunman, dressed in a loosefitting dark blue   and pants and wearing glasses, waiting on the sidewalk adjacent to the exit ramp of an underground parking lot in an upscale neighborhood. A white car pulls up to the barrier gate, waits for the arm to lift and drives off. Then, as the consular official’s black car pulls up, the gunman raises his arm, fires and runs away. In a separate video, taken a few minutes earlier, at 6:16 p. m. the consular official, wearing red shorts and with a gym bag slung over his shoulder, pays at the automated ticket machine and walks off, with the gunman following him. The F. B. I. said it was offering a $20, 000 reward to anybody who could provide information leading to the identification of the gunman. “The safety and security of our employees overseas is our highest priority,” the United States Embassy spokeswoman said. Eduardo Almaguer, the attorney general for Jalisco, told the local news media that the consular employee worked in the visa section of the consulate. State and federal authorities are working on the investigation. Employees of the United States Embassy and consulates in Mexico have been victims of drug violence in the past few years, though they have sometimes been targeted by mistake. That was the case in 2010 of a consulate employee in the border city of Ciudad Juárez, her husband and the husband of another employee who were killed. The white S. U. V. that the employee and her husband were driving in was mistaken for the vehicle of a gang leader whose killing was ordered by a rival. In 2011, an Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent was killed and another injured when they were ambushed by members of a drug gang hit squad on a highway. The next year, two C. I. A. employees were wounded when federal police officers fired at their armored car in an attack that has never been explained."
146,17451,300 Marines to Aid Fight Against Taliban in Spring - The New York Times,New York Times,Mujib Mashal,2017-01-08,2017.0,1.0,,"KABUL, Afghanistan  —   Approximately 300 United States Marines will return this spring to help fight a resurgent Taliban in the southern Afghan province of Helmand, the site of a yearslong bloody campaign, American officials in Afghanistan said on Saturday. An American military spokesman in Kabul said the Marines would replace an Army unit stationed in Helmand, and would offer training and advice to members of the Afghan military and the national police. “The Marine rotation is to replace soldiers currently here conducting the train, advise and assist mission,” said Brig. Gen. Charles H. Cleveland, a spokesman for United States forces in Afghanistan. “We’re very pleased that the Marines will rotate in, as they have tremendous institutional history in the region. ” The Marines were last in Helmand, a hotbed of Taliban fighters and poppy cultivation, in October 2014. Since then, Afghan forces, suffering from leadership woes and plagued by corruption, have struggled to hold territory, with district after district falling to the Taliban. For months now, the insurgents have been at the gates of the provincial capital, Lashkar Gah. The Afghan military welcomed the news of the Marines’ return. “We have been asking our foreign counterparts in security meetings to increase the level of their troops in Helmand Province to help us on the battlefields,” said Shakil Ahmad, an Afghan Army spokesman. Mr. Ahmad said the security situation in region was rapidly deteriorating. The Taliban appeared unfazed by the news of the Marines’ return. “Our mujahedeen continued their progress in the presence of tens of thousands of Americans and other invading forces,” said Qari Yousef Ahmadi, a Taliban spokesman. “A few hundred other soldiers won’t become an obstacle on the way of our progress. ” Fewer than 8, 400 American troops are currently in Afghanistan, deployed either through NATO to train Afghan forces or as part of a smaller American counterterrorism mission. President Obama declared the United States combat mission in Afghanistan over in December 2014. But in the past year, as violence has spread across the country, the line for the American military between consulting and fighting has increasingly blurred. At the peak of a troop surge in 2011, there were about 20, 000 Marines fighting across Helmand alongside thousands of British soldiers. Western troops fought the Taliban village to village, and tried to win civilians’ hearts and minds by doling out cash for bridges and roads. The Taliban recently told Lashkar Gah residents to store food items, warning that they would once again cut off Helmand’s main highway to the regional economic hub, Kandahar Province. Unlike in the past, fighting between government troops and the Taliban has not diminished with the coming of this year’s winter. Many fear that when fighting intensifies in the spring, the Taliban will be starting from a position of strength around several provincial capitals. Ensuring that Afghan leaders take advantage of the winter to improve leadership and root out corruption will be critical to how they tackle Taliban pressure in the spring, American officials said."
147,17452,Brock Osweiler and Texans Knock the Battered Raiders Out of the Playoffs - The New York Times,New York Times,The Associated Press,2017-01-08,2017.0,1.0,,"HOUSTON  —   Follow our live N. F. L. playoffs coverage here. Brock Osweiler redeemed himself after last month’s benching. Jadeveon Clowney established himself as a postseason force. And the Houston Texans got their first playoff victory since the 2012 season, beating the Oakland Raiders,   on Saturday. Osweiler threw for a touchdown and ran for another to lead the Texans to the win, in the   round. Clowney, erasing doubts that he deserved to be the top pick in the 2014 draft, got his first career interception, on the Raiders’ second drive. Osweiler, who got his job back last week after Tom Savage sustained a concussion, finished with only 168 passing yards but played his best game of the season. “It just goes back to having confidence in my teammates,” said Osweiler, who had never played in a playoff game, having been benched by the Denver Broncos last postseason in favor of Peyton Manning. “Believing in what you see, and just rip it. Cut it loose, and don’t have any hesitation. ” Houston ( ) and its   defense, led by Clowney and Whitney Mercilus, advanced to face either the Kansas City Chiefs or the New England Patriots in the divisional round. Clowney was roundly criticized in his first two   seasons before his star turn this season as he helped make up for the loss of J. J. Watt, who was placed on injured reserve in September. “Things didn’t go well earlier in my career, but I’m on the right track now,” Clowney said. The Raiders were making their first trip to the playoffs since the 2002 season, when they went to the Super Bowl, but it ended with a thud behind the struggles of their   quarterback, the rookie Connor Cook. He threw for 161 yards, with one touchdown and three interceptions. “It was his first start, on the road, in a playoff game, against the No.   defense,” Raiders Coach Jack Del Rio said. “It was a tough draw for him. We had hopes that we would be able to do enough around him so he wouldn’t have to do as much. ” Cook became the first quarterback in N. F. L. history to make his first start in a playoff game. The usual starter, Derek Carr, a contender for the Most Valuable Player Award, broke his leg two weeks ago, and Matt McGloin injured his shoulder last weekend. The Raiders were also missing their star left tackle, Donald Penn, whose streak of 160 straight starts ended because of a knee injury. The Raiders ( ) got touchdowns from Latavius Murray and Andre Holmes, but cornerback David Amerson said things would have been different if the team had fewer injuries. “I’ve got all the faith in Connor or Matt  —   any backups we’ve got,” he said. “But they know, at full strength, ain’t nobody in the league touching us, man. We’re going to take this loss on the chin, and we’re going to come back, for sure. ” Houston led by 13 at halftime after touchdowns by DeAndre Hopkins and Lamar Miller, who scored a play after Clowney’s interception. Houston increased its lead to   on a   run by Osweiler early in the fourth quarter."
151,17458,What TV Says About Race and Money - The New York Times,New York Times,Salamishah Tillet,2017-01-15,2017.0,1.0,,"Some of the most fascinating conversations about class anxiety aren’t happening on cable news networks these days but on a more unexpected place on television: shows like “Atlanta,” “ ” and “Insecure,” which have explored a profound, if largely ignored, economic issue  —   black downward mobility. On “” the Johnson family is led by Dre, a marketing executive, and Bow, a doctor. They have four children in private school and a house in an affluent, predominantly white neighborhood in Los Angeles. They took a vacation to Disney World estimated to cost more than $20, 000. But despite the family’s seeming stability, “ ” is largely about class tension. A central dilemma is Dre’s battle between his financial aspirations and racial authenticity, his    and his loyalty to his   roots. One of the best episodes this season, “Jack of All Trades,” opens with Dre (Anthony Anderson) and Bow (Tracee Ellis Ross) learning of their young twins’ career test results: Diane (Marsai Martin) might be in a “position of power in a political organization,” while Jack (Miles Brown) is likely to be “a member of a unionized group of skilled laborers. ” Despite Jack’s obvious excitement about, and talent for, the manual trades, his parents become obsessed with redirecting his career trajectory, worried that he will be pigeonholed, like Dre’s   father, Pops (Laurence Fishburne) in a   job for the rest of his life. As Pop’s presence reminds us, while Dre’s parents worked hard to provide him with an education, Dre did not inherit wealth, making his    status both new and fragile. This is a legitimate worry because more and more members of the   middle class are finding themselves in an economic downslide, with little hope that the next generation will earn more than the one before. In 2015, the Pew Research Center released a report detailing that the number of American households earning a   income had reached its lowest point in over 40 years. And the gap between the wealth of white and black families has widened to its highest level since 1989, according to a Pew report from 2014. Black male children raised in   households in the late 1970s and early ’80s have fallen out of the middle class at particularly higher rates than white male children after becoming adults, another Pew report found. On shows like Donald Glover’s “Atlanta” on FX and Issa Rae’s “Insecure” on HBO, both about a group of    professionally striving and financially struggling (and both, along with “” nominated for Golden Globes) the theme of black downward mobility is put into high relief. “Comedy in the black community is almost always about struggle,” said Mary Pattillo, author of “Black Picket Fences: Privilege and Peril Among the Black Middle Class. ” “And while exploring class differences is not new for black sitcoms, it is important that these themes are reproduced and restaged for each generation. The specifics might be different, but every generation returns to this theme because the precarity of the black middle class has not disappeared. ” On “Atlanta,” we meet Earn, a Princeton dropout who grew up in a   family and who works at an airport kiosk. He quits that job to manage his cousin, an    rapper named Alfred Miles, known as Paper Boi (Brian Tyree Henry) who has a song on the radio but makes a living as a drug dealer. Earn’s economic instability is exacerbated when his    girlfriend and his daughter’s mother, Van (Zazie Beetz) loses her job as an elementary schoolteacher because it was the only constant source of income for the family. “‘Atlanta’ offers up a realistic portrait of the vulnerability that the black middle class faces today,” said Jessica S. Welburn, a sociologist at the University of Iowa who researches   downward mobility. “While the election of the first   president gives many a sense of progress, racial disparities have also intensified and limited what has typically been a pathway to the middle class for   like a college degree or a government job. Knowing this,   still try to break through these barriers with obviously mixed results. ” “The Jacket,” the season finale of “Atlanta,” offers up one of the most pointed critiques of structural racism that I have seen on television this year: Neither Earn’s   childhood nor his Princeton education can protect him from the constraints that he and his friends find themselves under. After Earn wakes up in a strange house in a strange bed without his jacket, we follow him on an increasingly desperate search in increasingly dangerous situations. He finally arrives outside the home of the Uber driver who has his jacket, only to witness him being shot by the police. As extraordinary as that trauma might be for most Americans, the show portrays the sort of everyday violence to which   and Latinos, of various classes, are vulnerable. If race is intimately tied to class, so is gender, as Ms. Rae’s “Insecure” so poignantly reminds us. The main conflict on the series is its female protagonists, Issa and her best friend, Molly (Yvonne Orji) navigating the muddy waters of millennial dating. We first meet Issa, who works at a nonprofit, and her     boyfriend, Lawrence (Jay Ellis) on shaky ground. Despite his Georgetown degree, Lawrence is an entrepreneur unable to finalize his business plan or find a corporate job. He settles on working at Best Buy, and later, with encouragement from Issa, sets aside his dream of developing an app to take a gig at a tech  . And while the season concludes with a   breakup, their relationship was perhaps doomed from the beginning, by his inertia, his unemployment and their economic insecurity. Through Molly, a lawyer who brilliantly   between corporate and colloquial vernacular, the show explores how class mobility often differs for   women and men. After a string of disappointing romantic encounters, Molly ends up dating Jared (Langston Kerman) a witty, caring guy whom Issa jokingly calls “  ” because he works at Enterprise. Molly ends their relationship (the first of two times) after she and her friends find out he did not attend college. Averil Y. Clarke, author of “Inequalities of Love:   Black Women and the Barriers to Romance and Family,” said: “  black women are plagued by a very common racial problem. They, like most women, are encouraged to pursue the   script: Go to college, get a good job and get married and have kids. ” She added, “But, when it comes to dating, black women’s class aspirations are more likely to be unfulfilled than white women, their femininity and sense of value more likely to feel under assault. ” Historically, whether it was the striving of “The Jeffersons” or “The Fresh Prince of  ” or the   settings of shows like “Sanford and Son,” “Roc” or “Thea,” class differences have dominated black sitcoms in the    era. That these three recent shows are all created by   (Kenya Barris created “ ”) might enable them to attend differently to these nuances of   lives. Ms. Rae said in an interview with Vox, “This isn’t a show exclusively about, like, the struggle of being black. ” Instead, “It’s just regular black people living life. ” By setting her show in South Los Angeles, she is able to reveal the spectrum of   class diversity, as she noted in an interview with The Daily Beast: “Yes, there’s poverty there, there are gang members there, but there’s also affluence, there’s middle class, and everybody meshes together. ” Likewise, Mr. Glover said in an interview with Vulture, “I wanted to show white people, you don’t know everything about black culture. ” In that same interview, he underscores that one key difference is how he depicts class diversity. When Mr. Glover heard a suggestion that Paper Boi live in a   “traplike” home, he refused. “We were like: ‘No, he’s a drug dealer, he makes enough money to live in a regular apartment. ’” He added, “There were some things so subtle and black that people had no idea what we were talking about. ” Taken together, these sitcoms remind us of the centrality of race, not just to our conversations but to policies around income inequality. That the coming years may yield a hiring freeze on the federal work force, the continuing decline of unions, and more suffering for both   and     is no laughing matter. But, as the adage goes: Sometimes we simply have to laugh to keep from crying."
152,17459,The Making of Virtually Real Art With Google’s Tilt Brush - The New York Times,New York Times,Frank Rose,2017-01-06,2017.0,1.0,,"SAN FRANCISCO  —   In 1949, a Life magazine photographer named Gjon Mili made a pilgrimage to the French Riviera to see Pablo Picasso. Mili had come up with a way to photograph trails of light, and he wanted to shoot Picasso “drawing” in midair with a light pen  —   a process that would leave no trace except on film. Picasso loved it. The result, published in Life and exhibited at the Museum of Modern Art, was Picasso’s celebrated series of “light drawings” of bulls and centaurs and the like  —   photographs that captured him in the act of creating the ultimate in ephemeral art. Picasso is long gone. But some 68 years later, Google has been calling on dozens of artists, animators and illustrators with a   update of Mili’s concept  —   a virtual reality setup that enables people to paint with light that actually stays where you put it, at least for viewers wearing a VR headset. In place of Gjon Mili are Drew Skillman and Patrick Hackett, a pair of video game developers turned virtual reality enthusiasts who live in San Francisco. They were trying to build a   chess application one night a couple of years ago when they discovered it had an unexpected side effect: As you moved the chess pieces around in virtual space, they left trails of light behind. Sensing that their bug was in fact a feature, the two dropped the chess project immediately and hurled themselves at the light trails, hoping to develop a tool for drawing in three dimensions. In April 2015, seven months after they had cobbled together a rudimentary system they called Tilt Brush, Google bought their company for an undisclosed sum  —   which is how Mr. Skillman and Mr. Hackett have come to be ensconced in the company’s offices near the downtown waterfront here. With Google’s support, Tilt Brush has attracted a team of developers and evolved into a sophisticated tool for drawing, painting, even sculpting in space. It was released in April as a free   to the new HTC Vive, an $800 virtual reality system produced by the Taiwanese manufacturer HTC in partnership with Valve, an American video game developer. (It’s on sale as a $30 software package from Valve’s online store.) Reviewers immediately dubbed it the Vive’s killer app. This is hardly the kind of reception the two inventors were expecting when they started working on it in Mr. Skillman’s apartment, a    studio in South Park, the little neighborhood that has been a hub for San Francisco’s digerati since the 1990s. “Not in our wildest dreams,” said Mr. Skillman, a slightly built    with a neatly trimmed beard and a modest, unassuming manner. Tilt Brush got its name because in its earliest versions, you would draw or paint on a   surface that could be tilted in any direction in virtual space. But because the HTC Vive includes not just a virtual reality headset but also a pair of   controllers and two tracking sensors that map your movement in space, the program was revamped to enable you to paint or draw anywhere within a   area  —   no surface required. One controller serves as a palette, with dozens of colors and effects the other acts as a brush or pen. To watch someone use it is a bit unnerving, since the person appears to be making marks in midair, but you can’t actually see those. But put on a Vive headset and step between the sensors yourself  —   as I did in a windowless room in Google’s New York offices  —   and the illusion of delusion disappears. Instead, you suddenly see what has been produced: a phantom creation in three dimensions, something you can walk around, walk through, poke your head inside, do everything except touch. Google’s investment in virtual reality pales beside Facebook’s $2 billion purchase of the VR pioneer Oculus. Still, Tilt Brush is part of a growing effort, one that began with the introduction in 2014 of supercheap cardboard headsets that work with smartphones, and continues with the recent release of a stunning virtual reality version of Google Earth as a free download for Vive owners. Over the past year, Google has invited more than 60 people to try Tilt Brush and offer feedback, and this week the company is unveiling their work and participation. “You would never want to create an artistic tool with only engineers,” said Mr. Skillman. “That’s just absurd. ” According to Tory Voight, Google’s Tilt Brush program manager, those who have joined this    program include Dustin Yellin, a Brooklyn artist known for his   collages encased in layers of glass, and Jonathan Yeo, a British painter whose portrait of Kevin Spacey as the fictional American president Francis J. Underwood was exhibited last year at the Smithsonian Institution’s National Portrait Gallery. Jeff Koons, whose art works have sold at auction for as much as $58 million, had early access, though he was not part of the artists in residence program. Bob Mankoff, Roz Chast and other cartoonists for The New Yorker have also checked it out, as has Alex Hirsch, the young animator behind Disney’s hit television series “Gravity Falls. ” Last June, Mr. Hirsch posted a sample creation on Twitter along with an enthusiastic status update: “Drawing in virtual reality makes you feel like a   wizard god!” But the first to try it was Glen Keane, a   figure who in his 37 years at Disney had brought the warmth of   animation to such characters as Ariel (in “The Little Mermaid”) Aladdin, Tarzan and Pocahontas. “When I left Disney in 2012,” Mr. Keane said recently in his studio, a vintage bungalow on a quiet residential street in West Hollywood, Calif. “I told them it was because I know there’s something new coming  —   I don’t know what it is, but I need to leave to find it. ” He was still looking when he met Regina Dugan, then the leader of Google’s secretive Advanced Technology and Products group, which was experimenting with virtual reality. First he partnered with the group to make a   virtual reality short called “Duet,” a charming piece released in 2014 about two babies growing up that was shortlisted for an Academy Award. “Duet” broke new ground, since animation in virtual reality had almost exclusively been  . But though he’d spent a lifetime drawing on paper, Mr. Keane had always dreamed of being able to make the paper disappear. “The goal would be to animate not on paper but in space,” he said. Enter Tilt Brush, which Mr. Keane encountered when Mr. Skillman introduced himself at a visual effects conference in San Francisco. Though still in a primitive state, it was maturing rapidly, and Mr. Keane soon became a convert. In September 2015, seven months before its release, he previewed its capabilities with “Step Into the Page,” a   video. “The edges of the paper are no longer there,” he exclaimed in a   as he did a loose, freehand sketch of Ariel in virtual space. “This is not a flat drawing. This is sculptural drawing. ” Scott McCloud, the graphic artist whose book “Understanding Comics” is considered the ultimate guide to the art form, got to play with Tilt Brush when Google invited him to its Silicon Valley headquarters in August. “I don’t mind saying, I’m a little bit obsessed with this program,” he said as we sat in his small,   office in a mall in the Los Angeles exurb of Thousand Oaks. “One thing that appeals to me the most is, it’s still very early. Everyone is asking fundamental questions. We’re still trying to figure out what people are going to use it for. I love it when technology is in that stage. ” So, what are people going to use it for? Mr. McCloud threw out a few suggestions: performance art, virtual sculpture, industrial prototyping. “I doodle with it,” said Mr. Yeo, the painter, who spoke by telephone from London. “I describe it as a   sketchbook. ” What it won’t produce is anything resembling comics as they currently exist in the medium some call “Flatland. ” For denizens of Flatland who have learned to work within the constraints of   this can be problematic. Mr. Mankoff, the cartoon editor at The New Yorker, came up with some characteristically     drawings during the two days he spent using Tilt Brush with Ms. Chast and other colleagues at Google’s New York offices. But though he professes to have enjoyed the experience, he seems unlikely to lead The New Yorker out of Flatland. “You’ll probably find a sharp divide between older and younger cartoonists,” he said. “Or it may just not work  —   but that’s no reason not to try it. ” One suggestion the New Yorker team had: cubes and cylinders and other   shapes to draw on, “so you’re not starting from zero in   space. ” (Google has since implemented a similar idea.) Other than that, Mr. Mankoff offered with a grin: “The advice I would have for Google is, more cats. You can’t go wrong with cats. ” Mr. Keane has a different item on his wish list. Currently, works created in Tilt Brush are as motionless as a New Yorker cartoon. They’re essentially static, and Mr. Keane is an animator. “To me, the thing to conquer is to be able to animate in real time in space,” he said as I viewed a Tilt Brush drawing called “Victory Dance” in his studio. The piece captures a brief moment in time, seconds after his daughter’s high school choir had won a national championship  —   but it begs to be brought to life. “Just like you have a spatial dimension, you’ve got to have time as a dimension,” Mr. Keane continued. “There’s no reason you can’t do that. I’m not smart enough to figure it out. But Drew is. ”"
153,17460,Seizing a Second Chance to Graduate From High School - The New York Times,New York Times,Emily Palmer and John Otis,2017-01-08,2017.0,1.0,,"She skipped almost every class her sophomore year and still maintained perfect attendance. The trick was to drop in for the start of third period, wait for attendance to be recorded for the day and then leave with a bathroom pass. By the time her mother found out about the scheme, Skylynn Vazquez was failing every subject. Most days, Saquan Bright did not bother to show up at Boys and Girls High School in   Brooklyn. He chose to roam the streets with his friends. But then Ms. Vazquez and Mr. Bright found a school designed for students like them: Brooklyn High School for Leadership and Community Service in Clinton Hill, which is operated by Brooklyn Community Services, one of eight organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. Leadership, one of 57 transfer schools in New York City  —   established to help students struggling in traditional schools  —   has 202 students ages 16 to 21. By the time students reach Leadership, they have either dropped out of their regular schools or neared that point because of low grades or poor attendance. Many come from unstable homes, living with single parents in shelters and temporary housing, and have spent time in the criminal justice system. And 82 percent of the students qualify for free lunch because of their family’s income. The flexible school schedule  —   which allows for free periods  —   enables students to concentrate on courses required to graduate. And the school provides an optional paid internship program, which is appealing to students, some of whom help support their families or who are legally emancipated and support themselves. Before Leadership, Mr. Bright could not keep up with the demands at Boys and Girls High School. He struggled to pay attention in class, and could not finish tests in time. Still, he was not tested for a learning disability until he was enrolled at Leadership. Now he receives services at Leadership and extended time for tests, and his grades have improved. At her previous school, in Bushwick, Ms. Vazquez purposefully broke the rules. She wore hats at school every day, even though they were forbidden, and each one was taken away. “There was a point where I didn’t have any of my hats,” she said. “All 30 of my hats were locked in the dean’s office. ” She enrolled at that school midway through her freshman year, after moving from Florida. She recalled skipping classes and darting off to play basketball and video games with a handful of friends, most of whom have since dropped out, she said. “We were a bad influence on each other,” she said. “If one of us wasn’t in the mood to go to class, we’d all leave. We pushed each other to do the wrong thing. ” In March 2014, Ms. Vazquez’s mother  —   enraged by the discovery of what her daughter had been doing  —   spoke with administrators at the school, who suggested that her daughter enroll at Leadership. Ms. Vasquez, nervous about again switching schools, did not want to go, but when she arrived, she immediately found a support system there. Classes were small, with 20 to 25 students, allowing a nurturing,   learning environment. Students are on a   basis with all the teachers, including the principal. “Respect can be calling someone by their last name, but sometimes when you call someone by their first name, you feel like maybe you’re on a different level,” Stacey Fischler, the school’s program director, said. Students have access to advocate counselors, who are similar to social workers and help them with issues beyond academics, sometimes referring them to mental health services or youth shelters. Each counselor, assigned to 40 to 50 students, is tasked  —   to the point of pestering  —   with making sure they all go to school. “My priority is to make sure you get your education,” said Heather Hansen, a counselor. “Whether that is going to your house and knocking down your door or calling you like a lunatic all day or bothering your parents. That’s my goal. ” Ms. Vazquez smiled as she scrolled through those daily morning texts. At 6:25 a. m. on Nov. 2: “Rise  Shine Scholars. The grind continues. ” Two days later, at 6:44 a. m.: “Rise  Shine #TGIF. ” “I don’t think they sleep,” Ms. Vazquez said, laughing. “It’s a very supportive school. ” More than 14, 000 students attended transfer schools in New York City as of the   school year, the latest for which the Department of Education provided data.   graduation rates for the schools are much lower than the overall rate for New York City public schools, which increased in recent years to 70. 5 percent in 2015. Although the class of 2015 at Leadership had a 5. 6 percent   graduation rate, that rate improves over additional years  —   typical of many transfer schools. About a quarter of students graduate within six years, according to Department of Education data. Despite lower rates, the schools are serving students who may have otherwise dropped out, never receiving a diploma. “You’re working with a population that can be changed, that does need help and doesn’t get targeted often,” Ms. Hansen said. “You’re working with a population that is getting a second chance. And it’s nice to be able to give that. At the end of the day, it can be frustrating and taxing, but you get to see them walk across the stage, and that’s the main goal. ” For Mr. Bright, graduation day seemed unlikely two years ago. In spring 2014, he fell behind again, started ditching classes and almost dropped out. That August, when he was standing on a street corner in   a car passed by. Shots rang out, hitting him in the abdomen. Members of his family and of the Leadership staff surrounded his hospital bed. “There’s a lot of love there,” he said. He returned to school with renewed commitment. The Leadership family also kept Ms. Vazquez in school. “I have good friends and a good support system when I get to school every morning,” she said. “I didn’t think I’d get this far. But now I see a difference in myself, in how I react and how I say and do things. I’ve become a totally different person, and a lot of it comes from this school. ” Both Mr. Bright and Ms. Vazquez are looking forward to graduation. Mr. Bright, who will turn 22 this month, is allowed to finish this school year before he ages out of the public school system. He needs to pass one more Regents exam, for algebra, his most dreaded subject. So Brooklyn Community Services has allocated $500 in Neediest Cases funds to provide him with    tutoring. More than   of Leadership students, including Mr. Bright and Ms. Vazquez, participate in an     program. They have paid internships at places including Burlington Coat Factory, child care centers and the Brooklyn Veterinary Group. Last semester, Ms. Vazquez, 20, received an internship at 3 Black Cats Café and Cakery in Brooklyn, where she worked in the kitchen. It was the first job, Ms. Vazquez said, that she took pride in. “To bake something from scratch and perfect it,” she said. “Knowing that it represents your work, that is new for me. ” The internship ended in November, but she hopes to work at another restaurant. Her love for cooking started in her grandmother’s kitchen. They followed traditional Puerto Rican recipes, including pasteles, a dish of plantains, meat and olives. Now she cooks to remember her grandmother, who died last spring. After graduation in March, she hopes to continue her passion and has applied to culinary schools in upstate New York. When she talked to her grandmother about graduation, her grandmother would say, “Vamos a ver”  —   she would believe it when she saw it. “And now she’ll see,” Ms. Vazquez said with a smile."
154,17461,Airstrikes by Russia Buttress Turkey in Battle vs. ISIS - The New York Times,New York Times,Michael R. Gordon and Eric Schmitt,2017-01-09,2017.0,1.0,,"WASHINGTON  —   Russian warplanes have carried out airstrikes to support Turkey’s offensive in northern Syria against the Islamic State, an important evolution in a budding   partnership. The deepening ties threaten to marginalize the United States in the struggle to shape Syria’s ultimate fate. The air missions, which took place for about a week near the strategically important town of Al Bab, represent the Kremlin’s first use of its military might to help the Turks in their fight against the militant group. The Russians seized an opening to try to build a military relationship with Turkey, a NATO member, as the United States has sought to keep the emphasis on taking Raqqa, the Islamic State’s   capital. The Russian bombing is a remarkable turnabout from November 2015, when a Turkish   fighter jet shot down a Russian   attack plane that had violated Turkey’s airspace. Russia and Turkey had already been involved in a joint effort to establish a   in Syria  —   one that does not involve the United States. At the same time, ties between the United States and Turkey have come under growing strain as the Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has become increasingly alarmed about the Kurdish forces known as the Y. P. G. The United States has aligned itself with those forces to combat the Islamic State in Syria. Some analysts say Russia appears to have arrived at an accommodation in which the Turks are moving to establish a security zone in northern Syria to preclude Syrian Kurds from setting up an autonomous region. In return, the Turks appear to be backing off their efforts to unseat President Bashar   of Syria, who, with Russian help, is strengthening his hold on the country’s major cities to the south. “The   rapprochement is largely tactical,” said James F. Jeffrey, a former United States ambassador to Turkey. “Russia can live for now with a Turkish enclave in northern Syria if it does not threaten the Assad regime. And it allows Russia to exploit the U. S. shift to Turkey’s rival, the Y. P. G. by providing air support to the Turks against the Islamic State, which the U. S. inexplicably is not providing. ”   Donald J. Trump has spoken positively, though in vague terms, about the possibility of cooperating with Russia in the fight against the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL. But the Obama administration’s efforts to forge a common political and military strategy with the Kremlin on Syria collapsed after Russia supported Syrian forces and   fighters with its air power in the brutal retaking of Aleppo. Turkey began the operation at Al Bab, east of Aleppo, without coordinating with the United States and without the benefit of American airstrikes. “This is something that they’ve decided to do independently,” Col. John Dorrian, the spokesman for the   operation against the Islamic State, said in November. Turkey appeared to have assumed that it would make short work of the Islamic State fighters there. But the fighting has been stiff. In late November, the Turkish military’s problems were compounded when three of its soldiers were killed in what Turkish forces said was a Syrian airstrike. Mr. Erdogan later spoke by phone with Vladimir V. Putin, the Russian president, who assured him that Russia had not been involved in the air attack, according to Turkish news reports. The improving ties between the two autocratic leaders opened the door to greater cooperation. The Turkish military spoke publicly about the Russian role in a Jan. 2 statement that noted that Russian warplanes had struck targets the previous day about five miles south of Al Bab. American officials, who asked not to be identified because they were discussing intelligence, said that Russian airstrikes in the Al Bab area began at the end of December, and that Russian aircraft were flying near Al Bab as recently as Friday. The effectiveness of the Russian air operations, which have mainly involved dropping “dumb,” or unguided, bombs, is unclear. As Turkey’s casualties have mounted in the Al Bab operation, Turkish officials have complained about the lack of American air support and have even made veiled threats that Turkey might suspend allied combat flights against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria from its major base at Incirlik, which would be a major blow to the   air campaign. American officials suggested that the holdup in carrying out allied airstrikes in recent weeks was related to a Turkish decision to ban the Americans from flying reconnaissance drones in and around Al Bab to help identify and confirm targets, as well as bad weather. The Turkish military said that measure was needed to ensure that no potentially hostile aircraft flew over its troops, but it has hampered the United States’ ability to carry out airstrikes without endangering civilians. Operating without the benefit of precise intelligence, the United States recently engaged in what officials called a “show of force” operation in which American aircraft flew low over Al Bab and dropped flares. But last week, the Turks agreed that the United States could fly drones and other aircraft to gather intelligence, which paves the way for the   coalition to carry out airstrikes against the Islamic State in Al Bab, American officials said. The United States regards the Kurdish forces as some of the most effective fighters in the campaign against the Islamic State in Syria. But in deference to Turkish sensitivities, the Americans have declined to arm them directly. The Turks, however, regard them as nothing more than an arm of the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, an insurgent Kurdish group in Turkey and Iraq. The Turks have blamed the group for killing dozens of Turkish security forces in recent weeks. By any measure, the nascent cooperation between Russia and Turkey is a striking development. The situation was far different when Russian warplanes arrived at Latakia, Syria, in September 2015 to help the Assad government take on rebel groups, including some backed by the United States and Turkey. Relations were thrown into a crisis after a Turkish fighter jet shot down a Russian   attack plane and the Russian pilot was fatally shot by Syrian rebels as he was parachuting down. Mr. Putin denounced the   as a “stab in the back. ” Russia responded by deploying the   an advanced   system, at Latakia, and imposed economic sanctions against Turkey. But over the past year, the calculations of the two countries have changed. While President Obama warned that Syria would become a Russian military “quagmire,” the Russians, working with Iran,   forces and the Syrian military, helped Mr. Assad take back Aleppo in the waning months of the Obama administration without substantial Russian casualties. Still, Russia has to reckon with the fact that the Syrian military lacks the troops to control all of the country. At the same time, Turkey’s immediate objectives have shifted. Worried about the possibility that Kurdish fighters might link up separate cantons to establish an autonomous enclave across northern Syria, as well as about the presence of Islamic State fighters near its borders, Turkey sent its own forces into northern Syria in August. The Turkish offensive, which has enlisted the support of Syrian opposition groups that Turkey has backed, succeeded in taking the town of Jarabulus. But it has become bogged down near Al Bab, the last major town west of Raqqa still held by the Islamic State. The Russians notified the United States about the flights using a special hotline between Russian forces in Syria and the American air war command at Al Udeid Air Base in Qatar. The hotline’s goal is to “deconflict” air missions carried out by the Russians and the   coalition."
157,17464,Data Could Be the Next Tech Hot Button for Regulators - The New York Times,New York Times,Steve Lohr,2017-01-09,2017.0,1.0,,"Wealth and influence in the technology business have always been about gaining the upper hand in software or the machines that software ran on. Now data  —   gathered in those immense pools of information that are at the heart of everything from artificial intelligence to online shopping recommendations  —   is increasingly a focus of technology competition. And academics and some policy makers, especially in Europe, are considering whether big internet companies like Google and Facebook might use their data resources as a barrier to new entrants and innovation. In recent years, Google, Facebook, Apple, Amazon and Microsoft have all been targets of tax evasion, privacy or antitrust investigations. But in the coming years, who controls what data could be the next worldwide regulatory focus as governments strain to understand and sometimes rein in American tech giants. The European Commission and the British House of Lords both issued reports last year on digital “platform” companies that highlighted the essential role that data collection, analysis and distribution play in creating and shaping markets. And the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development held a meeting in November to explore the subject, “Big Data: Bringing Competition Policy to the Digital Era. ” As government regulators dig into this new era of data competition, they may find that standard antitrust arguments are not so easy to make. Using more and more data to improve a service for users and more accurately target ads for merchants is a clear benefit, for example. And higher prices for consumers are not present with free internet services. “You certainly don’t want to punish companies because of what they might do,” said Annabelle Gawer, a professor of the digital economy at the University of Surrey in England, who made a presentation at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development meeting. “But you do need to be vigilant. It’s clear that enormous power is in the hands of a few companies. ” Maurice Stucke, a former Justice Department antitrust official and a professor at the University of Tennessee College of Law, who also spoke at the gathering, said one danger was that consumers might be afforded less privacy than they would choose in a more competitive market. The competition concerns echo those that gradually emerged in the 1990s about software and Microsoft. The worry is that as the big internet companies attract more users and advertisers, and gather more data, a powerful “network effect” effectively prevents users and advertisers from moving away from a dominant digital platform, like Google in search or Facebook in consumer social networks. Evidence of the rising importance of data can be seen from the frontiers of artificial intelligence to mainstream business software. And certain data sets can be remarkably valuable for companies working on those technologies. A prime example is Microsoft’s purchase of LinkedIn, the business social network, for $26. 2 billion last year. LinkedIn has about 467 million members, and it houses their profiles and maps their connections. Microsoft is betting LinkedIn, combined with data on how hundreds of millions of workers use its Office 365 online software, and consumer data from search behavior on Bing, will “power a set of insights that we think is unprecedented,” said James Phillips, vice president for business applications at Microsoft. In an email to employees, Satya Nadella, Microsoft’s chief executive, described the LinkedIn deal as a linchpin in the company’s   goal to “reinvent productivity and business processes” and to become the digital marketplace that defines “how people find jobs, build skills, sell, market and get work done. ” IBM has also bet heavily on data for its future. Its acquisitions have tended to be in specific industries, like its $2. 6 billion purchase last year of Truven Health, which has data on the cost and treatment of more than 200 million patients, or in specialized data sets useful across several industries, like its $2 billion acquisition of the digital assets of the Weather Company. IBM estimates that 70 percent of the world’s data is not out on the public web, but in private databases, often to protect privacy or trade secrets. IBM’s strategy is to take the data it has acquired, add customer data and use that to train its Watson artificial intelligence software to pursue such tasks as helping medical researchers discover novel disease therapies, or flagging suspect financial transactions for independent auditors. “Our focus is mainly on nonpublic data sets and extending that advantage for clients in business and science,” said David Kenny, senior vice president for IBM’s Watson and cloud businesses. At Google, the company’s drive into   business software is fueled by data, building on years of work done on its search and other consumer services, and its recent advances in image identification, speech recognition and language translation. For example, a new Google business offering  —   still in the test, or alpha, stage  —   is a software service to improve job finding and recruiting. Its data includes more than 17 million online job postings and the public profiles and résumés of more than 200 million people. Its   algorithms distilled that to about four million unique job titles, ranked the most common ones and identified specific skills. The job sites CareerBuilder and Dice are using the Google technology to show job seekers more relevant openings. And FedEx, the giant package shipper, is adding the service to its recruiting site. That is just one case, said Diane Greene, senior vice president for Google’s cloud business, of what is becoming increasingly possible  —   using the tools of artificial intelligence, notably machine learning, to sift through huge quantities of data to provide   data services. “You can turn this technology to whatever field you want, from manufacturing to medicine,” Ms. Greene said.   Li, director of the Stanford Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, is taking a sabbatical to become chief scientist for artificial intelligence at Google’s cloud unit. She sees working at Google as one path to pursue her career ambition to “democratize A. I.,” now that the software and data ingredients are ripe. “We wouldn’t have the current era of A. I. without the big data revolution,” Dr. Li said. “It’s the digital gold. ” In the A. I. race, better software algorithms can put you ahead for a year or so, but probably no more, said Andrew Ng, a former Google scientist and adjunct professor at Stanford. He is now chief scientist at Baidu, the Chinese internet search giant, and a leading figure in artificial intelligence research. Rivals, he added, cannot unlock or simulate your data. “Data is the defensible barrier, not algorithms,” Mr. Ng said."
158,17465,Russian Hackers Find Ready Bullhorns in the Media - The New York Times,New York Times,Max Fisher,2017-01-13,2017.0,1.0,,"As the dust settles on Russian interference in the United States election, journalists are confronting an aspect that has received less scrutiny than the hacking itself but poses its own thorny questions: Moscow’s ability to steer Western media coverage by doling out hacked documents. Reporters have always relied on sources who provide critical information for   reasons. The duty, tricky but familiar, is to publicize information that serves the public interest without falling prey to the source’s agenda. But in this case, the source was Russia’s military intelligence agency, the G. R. U.  —   operating through shadowy fronts who worked to mask that fact  —   and its agenda was to undermine the American presidential election. By releasing documents that would tarnish Hillary Clinton and other American political figures, but whose news value compelled coverage, Moscow exploited the very openness that is the basis of a free press. Its tactics have evolved with each such operation, some of which are still unfolding. Thomas Rid, a professor of security studies at King’s College London who is tracking the Russian influence campaign, said it goes well beyond hacking: “It’s political engineering, social engineering on a strategic level. ” Great powers have long meddled in one another’s affairs. But Russia, throughout 2016, developed a previously unseen tactic: setting up fronts to seed into the press documents it had obtained by hacking. “Doing public relations work in order to get the hacked material out as an exclusive story with the Daily Caller or Gawker or the Smoking Gun, that is new,” Mr. Rid said. That public relations work was initially done by two web presences that appeared this summer, Guccifer 2. 0 and DCLeaks, each posing as   in the mold of Julian Assange, the WikiLeaks chief. Though neither acknowledged it, and the links were not immediately known, online security experts later concluded that both were Russian fronts. Guccifer 2. 0 claimed to be a Romanian ”freedom fighter” who had hacked the Democratic National Committee. Using Twitter’s private message service, the account conducted weekslong exchanges with journalists, pointing them to certain documents that had been hacked from the D. N. C. and other targets. “Whoever is doing this understands media. They understand the way that media works and how to manipulate media,” said Sheera Frenkel, a BuzzFeed News reporter who interacted with the fronts throughout the summer. DCLeaks, established separately and with its own sets of hacked documents, claimed to be “launched by the American hacktivists who respect and appreciate freedom of speech. ” The fronts sold the act by peppering their messages with slang and emojis. When Ms. Frenkel asked Guccifer whether it would release more D. N. C. documents, the reply came, “Yeah baby :)” Journalists who interacted with the accounts say their tone and facility with English varied widely, suggesting each was run by multiple users. A reporter with Motherboard, a technology site, quizzed Guccifer on the technical aspects of the hacking and on rudimentary Romanian. Guccifer failed both, lending credence to theories that it was a front. Those suspicions were initially restricted to security experts, trickling out only after firms such as ThreatConnect were able to unmask the fronts in detailed reports. In July, for instance, DCLeaks published emails belonging to retired Air Force Gen. Philip Breedlove. The Intercept, a   site, covered the emails in a story that portrayed Mr. Breedlove as trying to foment hostility against Russia. The story did not note Russian links to the hack. Its lead author, Lee Fang, said he had no interactions with DCLeaks and pointed out that the group’s suspected Russian ties were not widely publicized at that time. Some reporters were offered documents exclusively, a familiar tactic of government press offices and public relations firms that want to shape coverage. In September, DCLeaks contacted Peter Hasson, a reporter at the Daily Caller, a   site, with an offer:   access to hacked emails belonging to Colin Powell, the former secretary of state. The Daily Caller’s story also did not note the growing belief that the documents had been hacked by Russia and leaked as part of an influence operation. Mr. Hasson said he was unaware of the alleged Russian links at the time. After awareness grew, the front organizations dropped the pretense. The newest group called itself Fancy Bears Hack Team  —   a breathtakingly overt reference to “fancy bear,” the name that some Western security groups use for G. R. U. hackers. Tom Cheshire, a reporter with the British network Sky News who has dealt with Fancy Bears, said they behaved “almost more like a P. R. firm, really” and were “very businesslike,” doling out scoops and trying to shape coverage. “It’s the sort of horse trading you do with all sorts of sources, really,” Mr. Cheshire said, hitting on a key to the operation’s impact: the way that it played within the bounds of established journalistic norms. Any leak by any source  —   Russian agent or citizen    —   poses a similar set of quandaries for reporters. Do you emphasize the hacking itself in your coverage, knowing that this will undercut the source’s agenda but could also be a disservice to readers by putting less focus on newsworthy information in the release? Do you withhold newsworthy documents, even only temporarily, to check their veracity and provenance? What if they have already been reported by other outlets that were shown the documents first? If they did turn out to be hacked as part of a hostile foreign operation, does that really make their contents less newsworthy? These are old questions for journalists, but they have taken on new urgency with the scale of Russia’s hackings and aims. Though the calculus of reporting on   leaks may be familiar, one aspect of the Russian operation stands out: the lengths to which the fronts go to mask their identities and motives. Because the internet gives any outlet the potential to reach millions, all it takes is one   leak to send the document flying across the web. Last year,   hackers infiltrated the United States   Agency, most likely in retaliation for accusations of   doping among Russia’s Olympic athletes. But Fancy Bears struggled to place the stolen documents with American or British outlets. Reporters who saw the files said their news value did not outweigh the risk of serving Russian interests. When Fancy Bears offered the files to The Associated Press, the reporters instead published a story on the   group itself. Fancy Bears ultimately persuaded sportswriters with Spiegel, a prominent German outlet, to report on emails that appeared to show American athletes requesting medical exceptions to take restricted drugs. The article noted a possible Russian link only in the final lines, alongside a quote from an American official arguing that the leak was intended to distract from   doping. If mainstream outlets pass on a hacking,   fronts can always pass the documents to peripheral outfits who will lend them less weight but can still send them across social media. That has often included the website InfoWars, which was founded by the   radio host Alex Jones and often publishes conspiracy theories. Guccifer 2. 0 approached Mikael Thalen, a writer for InfoWars, with D. N. C. documents that showed Democrats’ plans for attacking Paul Manafort, a campaign manager to Donald J. Trump who had worked on behalf of the   Ukrainian president Viktor Yanukovych, a Kremlin ally. Mr. Thalen had come to believe, after many interactions with the front groups, that they “would reach out based on who would best carry the story the way they wanted it carried. ” He feared that Moscow was hoping InfoWars, by publishing the files, would muddy the water around accusations against Mr. Manafort, indirectly aiding Mr. Trump’s   campaign. Breaking with InfoWars’ usual reliance on such files, he declined to publish the documents. Because everyone has secrets, even if it’s only a few embarrassing personal emails, and because no network is impenetrable, skilled hackers can dig up compromising material on virtually any target. Democracies, which give privilege to competitive politics and free media, are particularly susceptible. “An open society is by choice more vulnerable than a closed society to some form of influence operation,” said Mr. Rid. “That is why we’re strong, but it’s also why we’re weak. ” The more that journalists and readers understand the motivations of foreign government leakers, he argued, the better they will be able to place those leaks in context, undercutting the hackers’ agenda without hiding newsworthy information. He compared this to a healthy body developing antibodies against a disease  —   foreign influence operations  —   that cannot be wholly immunized against while maintaining democratic openness. Still, some media trends  —   polarization, fake news, the   nature of social media  —   cut against those hopes. “This polarized election presented itself as a target of opportunity of the first order,” Mr. Rid said. Reporters may at times be hindered by a lack of transparency between media organizations, which are often highly competitive and prize speed and scoops. This has left reporters vulnerable because they cannot easily pool lessons on spotting foreign operations or, say, warn one another that a certain front is exaggerating the newsworthiness of its latest leak. “The more light shone on this, the more information you have when dealing with a source, the better decisions you’re going to make,” Mr. Cheshire said. Mr. Thalen, the InfoWars reporter, said he was increasingly turning down leaks that he knows his audience would read avidly and reward with acclaim, but that he considered exaggerated to advance Russian interests. Still, he was unsure it had made much difference. “A lot of people have swayed their reporting with their biases, and I didn’t want to do that,” he said. “People are believing what they want to be true. ”"
159,17466,‘What’s the Big Deal?’ Ask Trump Voters on Russia Hacking Report - The New York Times,New York Times,Campbell Robertson and Mitch Smith,2017-01-08,2017.0,1.0,,"COVINGTON, La.  —   “Sour grapes,” explained Bob Marino, 79, weighing in on the recent spycraft bombshell from the corner table of a local McDonald’s. “Sour grapes,” agreed Roger Noel, 65, sitting next to him. “Bunch of crybabies,” Reed Guidry, 64, offered from across the table. The subject of conversation was the report released by United States intelligence chiefs on Friday informing   Donald J. Trump of their unanimous conclusion that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia ordered an extensive, but covert, cyberoperation to help Mr. Trump win the election. The Russians had hacked and leaked emails, unleashed “trolls” on social media and used their “  propaganda machine” to spread stories harmful to Hillary Clinton. In Washington, the report was viewed as extraordinary, both for its timing, raising sharp questions about the  ’s legitimacy on the verge of his taking office, and for its assertions, describing the operation as Russia’s boldest effort yet to meddle with American elections, to spread discontent and to “undermine the U. S.  democratic order. ” But interviews with Trump supporters here in Louisiana, a state the   won by 20 points, and in Indiana, a state he won by nearly the same margin, found opinions about the report that ranged from general indifference to outright derision. “From the parts of the report I’ve seen,” said Rob Maness, a retired Air Force colonel who twice ran for Senate here as Tea Party favorite, “it seems silly. ” There are genuine concerns about Russia’s cyberoperations, he said, but the notion that they changed the outcome of the election was absurd. (The report made no determination on how they affected the election.) Of the comments he had seen from fellow Trump supporters on Facebook and in emails, he added, “90 percent of them are like, ‘What’s the big deal? ’” The Russians may have very well gotten involved, several people said. They added that kind of interference should be combated. But many assumed that foreign actors had long tried to play favorites in American elections, and that the United States had done the same in other countries’ elections. Even if the Russians did do it  —   which some were more willing to concede than others  —   what difference did it make? People did not need the Russians to make up their minds about Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Trump’s election opponent. Blaming her loss on the Russians was, as one Trump supporter here said, “just being sore losers. ” “I don’t think the Russians posed as big a problem to the Clintons as the Clintons posed to themselves,” said Paul Emenes, 49, while he sold ribs, shoulders and chops at a frigid outdoor farmers’ market in Covington. Russian hacking was concerning, sure, Mr. Emenes said. He added that, as long as Mr. Trump was not involved himself, “it doesn’t change the way I view him. ” Tina Gunaldo, 44, taking blankets off the citrus trees in her Mandeville, La. front yard after the previous night’s frost, had a similar attitude. “Trump is Trump,” she said. “Do I think he’s going to become more of a friend to Russia because of this? No I don’t. I think  —   I hope  —   his focus will be on making America great again. ” Ms. Gunaldo would not reveal whom she voted for, but she did say Mr. Trump’s slogan resonated with her. It apparently resonated quite widely in this parish, which he won by more than 50 points. But it was a quiet support, she said. She knew of only one yard in the whole subdivision with a sign. That yard belonged to Thurston Yates Sr. “I don’t believe it,” Mr. Yates, 78, said flatly of the intelligence report. He was standing in the yard under his “Make America Great Again” flag, which he bought at a gun show several months ago. “Why would Putin even want Trump?” Mr. Yates, who is retired from a career in pharmaceutical sales, was not concerned about what Mr. Trump might do in office, but said he was deeply alarmed about what President Obama might do before he leaves office. It was Mr. Obama who was too soft on Russia, who let Mr. Putin get away with things, Mr. Yates continued. Mr. Trump would be much tougher. But Mr. Yates then added: “Why is everybody so afraid of Russia? I’m not against Putin. ” This last sentiment was not uncommon. Even among those who were troubled by the hacks, few felt that Russia was a serious threat. The country was “a basket case,” and not the powerful foe it once was, said Mr. Marino, from his seat at McDonald’s. Others said that North Korea, the Islamic State and China were the real threats. Russia could even be a potential ally in some fights, suggested Valarie Kubacki, 54, a real estate broker in Valparaiso, Ind. Ms. Kubacki said she perceived Russia as “somewhere in the middle” between friend and enemy, but agreed with Mr. Trump that the United States could work with them to defeat the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL. “We may have to line up with people who may not be our ‘friend’ to make that happen,” she said. That those on the right seemed to be warming to Russia was not seen as a particularly unusual development, though some joked about the incongruity of the left putting such faith in the Central Intelligence Agency. As they watched their son skate with his Boy Scout group at the public ice rink in downtown Valparaiso, Monty and Mary Willis, both registered Republicans, considered the ramifications of the intelligence report. “The idea of a fair election” had been placed in doubt, Ms. Willis said. “We were concerned about money being involved in the election. Now you’re talking about espionage. ” The Willises, who both work in real estate, might be Republicans, but they were not Trump voters. In fact, they had last voted for a Republican presidential candidate in 2008, when Senator John McCain of Arizona ran. The party seemed to have changed in recent years, they said. And the incoming administration had them deeply worried. “Our president being in cahoots with the Russian government?” Mr. Willis said. “Yes, I’m very concerned about that. ” In Louisiana, David Gubert, 56,   Eagle 20 cigarettes in the cab of his pickup, with stacks of firewood for sale behind him in the bed. Like the Willises, he ruminated on what it would mean if the Russians had gotten involved, and possibly even swung the election. But Mr. Gubert came to a different conclusion. “If that’s what it took,” he said, “I’m glad they did it. ”"
161,17468,Experts Hesitate to Link Florida Airport Attack to PTSD - The New York Times,New York Times,Dave Philipps,2017-01-09,2017.0,1.0,,"Family members say that Esteban Santiago, the suspect in the Fort Lauderdale airport shooting in which five people were killed, seemed troubled when he came back from military service in Iraq. His brother described him as “more furious” after his deployment in 2010 with a Puerto Rico National Guard unit. His aunt said that after coming home, Mr. Santiago “lost his mind. ” After Mr. Santiago’s arrest in the shooting, emerging details of his military service led some to blame the rampage on the   mind of a veteran haunted by   stress disorder, a common pattern when veterans are arrested in violent crimes. But experts not connected to Mr. Santiago’s mental health treatment say it may be a mistake to blame PTSD. Mr. Santiago, who served for eight years in the National Guard and Army Reserve and saw combat in Iraq in 2010, exhibited symptoms that do not appear to fit the disorder, they say, and more closely resemble schizophrenia, a condition unrelated to military service. Mr. Santiago’s family said he reported hearing voices and had other hallucinations, but said he was never given a diagnosis of PTSD. In November, he walked into an F. B. I. office in Alaska and told agents that his mind was being controlled by a United States intelligence agency. “The delusions, the hallucinations are far more consistent with psychosis than PTSD,” said Dr. Donald C. Goff, a psychiatrist at New York University and a leading expert on schizophrenia. “So is the timing of the onset. ” Mr. Santiago deployed to Iraq when he was 20 years old, which is the age when many males with schizophrenia begin to exhibit symptoms, Dr. Goff said, cautioning that he could not comment on Mr. Santiago specifically without reviewing his medical records. “Generally, it’s in the first year of college or military service, or some other stressful event, that we see schizophrenia,” he said. “It’s not that deployment is the cause of the psychosis, but the stress may contribute to the symptoms coming out. ” The level of stress Mr. Santiago experienced on deployment is unclear. He went to Iraq with the Puerto Rico National Guard’s 1013th Engineering Company, and was charged with keeping highways clear of roadside bombs. Violence had dropped drastically in the country by 2010 nonetheless, two soldiers in his company were killed by a roadside bomb. After his tour, Mr. Santiago was awarded the Combat Action Badge, which is given only to service members who are actively engaged with the enemy. “There is nothing to say that a person can’t have psychosis and PTSD,” said Claude M. Chemtob, a professor of psychology at New York University who has studied the link between PTSD and aggression. But, he said, the two disorders are characterized by different symptoms. PTSD sufferers can struggle with anxiety, sleeplessness, flashbacks and anger. In rare cases, the disorder results in increased violence and aggressiveness. But paranoid delusions are not typical. “That is a cardinal symptom of psychosis,” Dr. Chemtob said. “But inevitably people’s prejudice toward veterans is going to lead them to emphasize PTSD. ” Veterans have complained that too often they are labeled with the disorder, and that ascribing all violent acts among veterans to the psychological scars of war perpetuates damaging stereotypes. Many have argued that is what happened with Eddie Ray Routh, the    former Marine corporal who killed Chris Kyle, a member of the Navy SEALs and the author of “American Sniper,” in 2013. Mr. Routh’s medical records revealed he had persistent delusions that he was being devoured from the inside by parasites, and that his   were pig people who wanted to eat him, but a doctor at a veterans hospital gave him a diagnosis of PTSD. Veterans have struggled with the reputation for being dangerously unstable since at least the Vietnam War. The stigma was stoked in part by Hollywood narratives like “Rambo,” and is still pervasive today, said Bill Rausch, the executive director of Got Your 6, a nonprofit group that tracks the public image of veterans. According to a survey by the group in 2016, 83 percent of respondents said they believed veterans were more likely to have mental health problems. Respondents also said they thought veterans were more likely to be unemployed and abuse drugs. In fact, in terms of employment and drug use, the opposite is true. “The public sees veterans as broken, and they often shape the narrative to fit their perceptions,” Mr. Rausch said. When the news of the Fort Lauderdale shooting broke, he said: “My first thought was that I hoped no one was hurt. My second was that I hoped it wasn’t a veteran because I knew if they were, it would spark a simplified explanation that would never happen with a civilian, tying everything back to war. ” After telling the F. B. I. in November that his mind was being controlled, Mr. Santiago was taken to a civilian psychiatric hospital. The law prevents patients from being held involuntarily if they are not an imminent threat to themselves or others. Mr. Santiago was released after four days. “Anyone who has ever known someone with mental illness knows it’s extremely complicated and hard to deal with,” Mr. Rausch said. “Blaming on military experience keeps us from having a real conversation about how to fix things. This isn’t a veteran problem, it’s an American problem. ”"
163,17471,‘La La Land’ Wins Seven Golden Globes ‘Moonlight’ Wins Best Drama - The New York Times,New York Times,Brooks Barnes and Cara Buckley,2017-01-10,2017.0,1.0,,"• The record seven awards for the musical “La La Land” included for best picture comedy or musical and wins by Ryan Gosling and Emma Stone. “Moonlight” won for best picture drama. • Meryl Streep gave an impassioned, politically charged speech after receiving the Cecil B. DeMille Award. • Casey Affleck, Viola Davis, Isabelle Huppert and Tracee Ellis Ross also won awards. Here is a list of the winners. • And in TV categories, “The Crown” and “Atlanta” were triumphant. • Wesley Morris, Melena Ryzik and Dave Itzkoff provided   commentary. And The Times was also on the red carpet. The     “La La Land” dominated the 74th Golden Globes on Sunday, receiving a promotional boost in the form of a lavish tribute that kicked off the awards telecast and collecting a record seven prizes, including one for best comedy or musical. No film has won more than four Globes since 1979, when the crime drama “Midnight Express” received six, the previous   number. “I’m in a daze now officially,” said the force behind “La La Land,” Damien Chazelle, 31, as he accepted the directing award. Noting the “La La Land” plot  —     dreamers try to make it in show business  —   Emma Stone said in accepting the award for best actress in a musical or comedy, “I think that hope and creativity are two of the most important things in the world, and that’s what this movie is about. ” “La La Land,” made by Lionsgate, also won Globes for song, score, screenplay and actor. The bliss felt by the “La La Land” cast and crew was likely mirrored by the disappointment of those involved with “Moonlight,” the night’s    film. Despite six nominations, “Moonlight,” about a young black man growing up in Miami, received a lone trophy  —   albeit an important one: best drama. “Please, tell a friend, tell a friend, tell a friend,” Barry Jenkins, the director of “Moonlight,” said in accepting the award, trying to boost the art film’s box office performance. A year after Hollywood was excoriated for its lack of diversity at the Oscars, inclusion was a major theme on Sunday. “This is for all of the women of color and colorful people whose stories, ideas, thoughts are not always considered worthy,” said Tracee Ellis Ross, as she accepted the best television actress Globe for her role in the ABC series “ . ” “I want you to know that I see you. We see you. ” Ms. Ross was the first black woman to win in the category since 1983, when Debbie Allen won for “Fame. ” There were several surprises. Isabelle Huppert took best actress in a drama for the French film “Elle,” beating Natalie Portman, who was favored to win for “Jackie. ” (“Elle,” a thriller about a businesswoman who tracks her rapist, also won best foreign film.) The foreign journalists who bestow the Globes are known for spreading their awards far and wide, but several films received nothing, including “Florence Foster Jenkins,” “Lion,” “Hacksaw Ridge” and “Hell or High Water. ” “Manchester by the Sea,” despite five nominations, was honored only in the best actor category for Casey Affleck. HBO, despite 14 nominations, the most of any network, was shut out altogether. The first award of the night, for best supporting actor, dropped jaws: Aaron   won for his performance in Tom Ford’s   “Nocturnal Animals,” beating favorites like Mahershala Ali of “Moonlight. ” “I made it  —   thank you,” Mr.   said, looking a bit startled. To the surprise of almost no one, Viola Davis took the supporting actress prize for playing a 1950s homemaker in “Fences. ” After doling out two kisses, one to her husband and one to Denzel Washington, who directed “Fences” and stars in it, Ms. Davis thanked its producers for taking a risk on the film. “It doesn’t scream moneymaker,” she said. “But it does scream art. It does scream heart. ” Early television awards were widely distributed. The   FX series “Atlanta,” about an aspiring rapper and his manager cousin, was honored as best comedy and Donald Glover won for best comedic actor for his performance in the show. Beating the likes of Rami Malek (“Mr. Robot”) and Bob Odenkirk (“Better Call Saul”) for best actor in a drama was Billy Bob Thornton, honored for his performance in “Goliath,” a show with little buzz. Best actress in a TV drama went to Claire Foy, who plays a young Queen Elizabeth II in Netflix’s “The Crown,” which won for best dramatic series. As expected, “The People vs. O. J. Simpson: Crime Story” was named best   and Sarah Paulson, repeating her win at the Emmys, collected a trophy for her portrayal of the prosecutor Marcia Clark in that show. A   Ms. Paulson was showered with hugs from   as she returned to her seat. The night got off to a jerky start. After the host, Jimmy Fallon, opened the show with the taped “La La Land”  number, he became befuddled after a teleprompter malfunction. Still, he kept it breezy. “Let’s make tonight a celebration,” Mr. Fallon said in his monologue. Despite promises in preshow interviews to zing Donald J. Trump ahead of his inauguration, Mr. Fallon even kept his political jokes to a minimum. “One of the few places left where America still honors the popular vote,” he said, almost in a mumble. For casual movie fans, the annual Oscar race starts with the Globes. (Oscar nomination ballots are due on Friday.) But the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, the group behind the Globes, has worked in recent years to make its television honors more relevant by leaning toward rookie shows like “The Affair” and “Transparent. ” Hollywood stylists spent most of the week fretting about the weather forecast. For days, it looked like torrential rain would threaten a repeat of the 2010 Globes ceremony, when the red carpet turned into a swamp. On Sunday, however, Angelenos awakened to “another day of sun,” to borrow a lyric from “La La Land. ” When Meryl Streep, a   Globes nominee and   winner, accepted her Cecil B. DeMille lifetime achievement award, she gave an impassioned speech that, while never mentioning Mr. Trump by name, was a clear reaction to the election. “Take your broken heart, make it into art,” she said, quoting Carrie Fisher. Mr. Trump, in a brief telephone interview, said that he had not watched the Globes or Ms. Streep’s speech, but that he was “not surprised” that she and some other entertainment figures had criticized him during the Hollywood event. “Meryl Streep introduced Hillary Clinton at her convention, and a lot of these people supported Hillary,” Mr. Trump said, referring to Ms. Streep’s remarks at the Democratic National Convention last summer on behalf of Mrs. Clinton. While winners steered away from directly criticizing Mr. Trump, several used their moment onstage to take clear jabs. The British actor Hugh Laurie, collecting a   actor award for “The Night Manager,” said: “I can say I won this at the   Golden Globes. I mean, it has the words ‘Hollywood,’ “Foreign’ and ‘Press’ in it. ” He added, “I also think to some Republicans, even the word ‘Association’ is sketchy. ” Some Trump supporters, either anticipating the barbs or irritated that many Hollywood stars have been outspoken in their horror at his election, made #BoycottGoldenGlobes trend on Twitter early on Sunday. The Golden Globes are great fun, and so is its red carpet. Among this year’s first arrivals were the Stallone sisters, this year’s Miss Golden Globes, shepherded about by their father Sylvester’s     publicist no buttering up of reporters. A news crew from Canada was promised a question with the sisters but then told “They need to go do Twitter” first. Issa Rae and Donald Glover were among the luminaries who admitted to feeling slightly intimidated to being there. Mr. Glover said he really wanted to meet Ms. Davis, and that he was still shocked at the huge response to “Atlanta,” his FX series. “It was supposed to be a punk show,” he said. “And they screened it at A. F. I. and Scorsese was laughing. ” Ms. Rae, of the HBO show “Insecure,” said she was still adjusting to her growing fame. “I’m an introvert, I barely leave the house,” she said. “To be out here is a blessing but I’m like: ‘Wow, guys. It’s just me. ” Even though Netflix has upended the TV industry, that streaming service had never won in the best drama or comedy category at the Globes (and the Emmys, for that matter). That changed this year with “The Crown,”  which was named best drama. Claire Foy, who plays Queen Elizabeth, won for best actress in a drama. “The Crown” beat out “Stranger Things,” also from Netflix “Westworld,” the HBO series that practically requires a Ph. D. to understand it NBC’s   “This Is Us” and HBO’s “Game of Thrones. ” Another closely watched television race was for best comedic actress, where Ms. Ross beat out some stiff competition to become the first black woman to win in the category since Debbie Allen in 1983. Also nominated were the   Globe winner Sarah Jessica Parker, for her role as a   suburban mother in HBO’s “Divorce” Ms. Rae, nominated for her   performance in HBO’s “Insecure” Julia   from the network’s “Veep” and last year’s winner, Rachel Bloom (“Crazy  ”). Globe voters have ardently tried to leave behind their reputation for paying more attention to celebrity than honoring the year’s best performances. Once upon a time, Globe attendees also bellied up to the open bar in a boozy spectacle, but nominees  —   heeding the scolding eyes of their publicists  —   have largely started sticking to water. Despite moments of seriousness, however, the Globes lived up its raucous reputation. The “Modern Family” star Sofia Vergara made anus jokes from the stage. NBC censors bleeped expletives from Amy Schumer. Dinner guests in multiple instances chatted right through the speeches. As ever, the ballroom’s smoking patio was chockablock with stars at one moment, Sophie Turner from “Game of Thrones” lit her cigarette off one held by her   Maisie Williams. The young “Stranger Things” cast members ran around taking selfies. As ever, the ceremony’s success will be determined by the Nielsen ratings. About 18. 5 million people watched last year, down from 19. 3 million in 2015. Televised award shows in general have been suffering from viewer erosion, partly because there is a seemingly endless array of them, but NBC had high hopes for Mr. Fallon. He has a much wider fan base than Mr. Gervais and has been using his “Tonight Show” perch as a promotional platform for the gig."
164,17472,Donald Trump Says He’s Not Surprised by Meryl Streep’s Golden Globes Speech - The New York Times,New York Times,Patrick Healy,2017-01-10,2017.0,1.0,,"  Donald J. Trump dismissed Meryl Streep as “a Hillary lover” early Monday morning after the actress, in a speech at the Golden Globes award ceremony, denounced him as a bully who disrespected and humiliated others. Mr. Trump, in a brief telephone interview, said he had not seen Ms. Streep’s remarks or other parts of the Globes ceremony, which were broadcast on NBC, but he added that he was “not surprised” that he had come under attack from “liberal movie people. ” [ Read Meryl Streep’s Golden Globes speech ] The Globes were the last   Hollywood event before Mr. Trump’s inauguration on Jan. 20, a transfer of power that many in the entertainment industry have bemoaned. While   comments at the Globes were relatively restrained, Ms. Streep, one of the most outspoken progressives in the film world, mounted a powerful critique of Mr. Trump’s abilities as a performer, complimenting in a backhanded way a style of showmanship that she all but called insidious. “There was one performance this year that stunned me  —   it sank its hooks in my heart,” Ms. Streep said. “Not because it was good there was nothing good about it. But it was effective and it did its job. It made its intended audience laugh, and show their teeth. “It was that moment when the person asking to sit in the most respected seat in our country imitated a disabled reporter,” she said, referring to a speech by Mr. Trump in 2015 when he shuddered and flailed his arms, seeming to mock a disabled reporter for The New York Times. “It kind of broke my heart when I saw it, and I still can’t get it out of my head, because it wasn’t in a movie. It was real life. ” Mr. Trump, as he has done many times before, grew heated in the interview as he flatly denied that he had intended to make fun of the Times reporter, Serge F. Kovaleski. “I was never mocking anyone,” Mr. Trump said. “I was calling into question a reporter who had gotten nervous because he had changed his story,” arguing that the reporter had been trying to back away from an article he wrote in September 2001 about the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and elsewhere that month. “People keep saying I intended to mock the reporter’s disability, as if Meryl Streep and others could read my mind, and I did no such thing,” he said in the interview. “And remember, Meryl Streep introduced Hillary Clinton at her convention, and a lot of these people supported Hillary,” Mr. Trump said, referring to Ms. Streep’s remarks at the Democratic National Convention last summer on behalf of his opponent, Mrs. Clinton. Later Monday morning, Mr. Trump, in a series of tweets, called Ms. Streep “one of the most   actresses in Hollywood,” and “a Hillary flunky who lost big. ” He also reiterated his argument that he had not mocked the reporter “but simply showed him ‘groveling. ’” Ms. Streep’s artful denunciation of Mr. Trump  —   whom she never mentioned by name  —   drew applause from many other actors at the Globes ceremony, but also attacks online from the  ’s allies, like Sean Hannity, as well as some Republicans, like Meghan McCain, who are critical of Mr. Trump but see Hollywood liberals as only emboldening his supporters. Ms. Streep’s speech did not seem intended to win people over  —   she spoke dismissively of football and mixed martial arts at one point  —   but rather to voice frustration and anger before Mr. Trump’s inauguration. “This instinct to humiliate, when it’s modeled by someone in the public platform, by someone powerful, it filters down into everybody’s life, because it kind of gives permission for other people to do the same thing,” she said in her remarks. “Disrespect invites disrespect, violence incites violence. And when the powerful use their position to bully others we all lose. ” Mr. Trump said that, Ms. Streep and her allies aside, he was confident that celebrities and others would turn out in strong numbers for his inauguration. “We are going to have an unbelievable, perhaps   turnout for the inauguration, and there will be plenty of movie and entertainment stars,” Mr. Trump said. “All the dress shops are sold out in Washington. It’s hard to find a great dress for this inauguration. ”"
165,17473,Jenna Bush Hager and Michael Keaton Flub Movie Title at Golden Globes - The New York Times,New York Times,Daniel Victor,2017-01-09,2017.0,1.0,,"Let’s just be very clear about this: There is no movie called “Hidden Fences. ” But you would be forgiven for thinking otherwise after watching the Golden Globes, after the nonexistent movie was mentioned twice. The first time was definitely a mistake. The second time is not so clear. First, NBC’s Jenna Bush Hager, taking her first turn at Golden Globes reporting, presumably meant to ask Pharrell Williams about his best original score nomination for “Hidden Figures,” a movie about three black women who would play crucial roles in the American space program. Surely she didn’t mean to ask him about “Fences,” a similarly renowned film starring Viola Davis and Denzel Washington. Mr. Williams had no involvement in that. But: Mr. Williams’s   reaction, in which he appeared to be doing his best to hold back whatever he badly wished to say, was impressive in its restraint. Unsurprisingly, the immediate reaction on Twitter was less restrained. “So Jenna Bush is just merging all of the black movies tonight at the #GoldenGlobes, huh?” one user asked. “Pharrell’s face just held hundreds of years of whitewashing resolve,” another said. Others had fun in similarly inventing new movie titles. That seemed to be the end of things, but for some reason, Michael Keaton also referred to “Hidden Fences” when listing the nominees for best supporting actress in a motion picture. Since the camera was focused on the actresses, it’s unclear if Mr. Keaton said it with a wink and a nod."
167,17475,Golden Globe Award Winners 2017: The Complete List - The New York Times,New York Times,Joshua Barone,2017-01-10,2017.0,1.0,,"Here are the movies and TV shows that received the top awards. Best picture, drama: “Moonlight” Best picture, comedy or musical: “La La Land” Actress, drama: Isabelle Huppert, “Elle” Actor, drama: Casey Affleck, “Manchester by the Sea” Actress, comedy or musical: Emma Stone, “La La Land” Actor, comedy or musical: Ryan Gosling, “La La Land” Supporting actress: Viola Davis, “Fences” Supporting actor: Aaron   “Nocturnal Animals” Director: Damien Chazelle, “La La Land” Screenplay: Damien Chazelle, “La La Land” Animated film: “Zootopia” Foreign language film: “Elle” (France) Original score: Justin Hurwitz, “La La Land” Original song: “City of Stars,” “La La Land” Best series, drama: “The Crown,” Netflix Best series, comedy or musical: “Atlanta,” FX Best television movie or  : “The People v. O. J. Simpson: American Crime Story,” FX Actress,   or television movie: Sarah Paulson, “The People v. O. J. Simpson: American Crime Story” Actor,   or television movie: Tom Hiddleston, “The Night Manager” Actress, drama: Claire Foy, “The Crown” Actor, drama: Billy Bob Thornton, “Goliath” Actress, comedy or musical: Tracee Ellis Ross, “ ” Actor, comedy or musical: Donald Glover, “Atlanta” Supporting actress: Olivia Colman, “The Night Manager” Supporting actor: Hugh Laurie, “The Night Manager”"
168,17476,Can Evolution Have a ‘Higher Purpose’? - The New York Times,New York Times,Robert Wright,2017-01-09,2017.0,1.0,,"About 25 years ago, a conversation between me and one of the greatest biologists of the 20th century took a weird turn. I was talking to William D. Hamilton, who was famous for coming up with the theory of “kin selection,” which explains patterns of altruism among close relatives in various species, including ours. This and other seminal ideas had earned Hamilton a place in the pantheon of thinkers who ushered in the modern Darwinian understanding of social behavior. Richard Dawkins, in the preface to his landmark 1976 book,“The Selfish Gene,” paid tribute to Hamilton and the three other “dominant figures” in social biology whose ideas formed the book’s foundation. I was interviewing Hamilton at the University of Michigan, where he was on sabbatical from Oxford. A video camera was rolling. I had been researching a book about evolutionary psychology, and I was hoping to create a documentary on the subject. The documentary never materialized, and Hamilton died in early 2000. My interview with him sat unwatched until earlier this year, when I tracked down the tape containing it. During the interview, I was trying to steer Hamilton toward philosophical topics, and at one point he went further than I had expected. He said, “I’m also quite open to the view that there is some kind of ultimate good which is of a religious nature  —   that we just have to look beyond what the evolutionary theory tells us and accept promptings of what ultimate good is, coming from some other source. ” That’s an unusual thing for a great evolutionary biologist to say, but the most unusual part was still to come. Hamilton continued, in his British accent, “I could enlarge on that in terms of the possible existence of extraterrestrial manipulators who interfere, and so on, but I think this would be getting too far from the general topic of discussion. ” Well, maybe, but this sounded at least as interesting as the general topic of discussion. I asked him if he meant that there was some kind of “transcendental purpose” that we humans are generally oblivious to. He answered: “Yes, yes. There’s one theory of the universe that I rather like  —   I accept it in an almost joking spirit  —   and that is that Planet Earth in our solar system is a kind of zoo for extraterrestrial beings who dwell out there somewhere. And this is the best, the most interesting experiment they could set up: to set up the evolution on Planet Earth going in such a way that it would produce these really interesting characters  —   humans who go around doing things  —   and they watch their experiment, interfering hardly at all so that almost everything we do comes out according to the laws of nature. But every now and then they see something which doesn’t look quite right  —   this zoo is going to kill itself off if they let you do this or that. ” So, he continued, these extraterrestrials “insert a finger and just change some little thing. And maybe those are the miracles which the religious people like to so emphasize. ” He reiterated: “I put it forward in an almost joking spirit. But I think it’s a kind of hypothesis that’s very, very hard to dismiss. ” The headline almost writes itself: “  Scientist Says Miracles Can Happen!” The subhead would add: “Extraterrestrials may play a role. ” But that’s the headline you’d write if you were just trying to maximize clicks. If you wanted to capture the philosophical significance of what Hamilton was saying, you’d take another tack. Rather than focus on miracles, you’d focus on the idea of “higher purpose”  —   the idea that there’s some point to life on earth that emanates from something that is in some sense beyond it. And  —   in hopes of generating as many clicks as possible, notwithstanding the philosophical significance  —   you’d put this in listicle form, laying out several misconceptions that Hamilton had implicitly dispelled. You could call these the “Three Great Myths About Evolution and Purpose. ” Myth number one: To say that there’s in some sense a “higher purpose” means there are “spooky forces” at work. When I ask scientifically minded people if they think life on earth may have some larger purpose, they typically say no. If I ask them to explain their view, it often turns out that they think that answering yes would mean departing from a scientific worldview  —   embracing the possibility of supernatural beings or, at the very least, of immaterial factors that lie beyond scientific measurement. But Hamilton’s thought experiment shows that this isn’t necessarily so. You may consider aliens spooky, but they’re not a spooky force. And they’re not supernatural beings. They’re just physical beings, like us. Their technology is so advanced that their interventions might seem miraculous to us  —   as various smartphone apps would seem to my      —   but these interventions would in fact comply with the laws of science. More to the point: If you ask how Hamilton’s aliens had initially imparted “purpose” to life, the answer is that they did so in concrete fashion: by planting simple   material on earth a few billion years ago, confident that it would lead to something that would keep them entertained (keeping them entertained being, in this scenario, life’s purpose). Which leads to: Myth number two: To say that evolution has a purpose is to say that it is driven by something other than natural selection.  The correction of this misconception is in some ways just a corollary of the correction of the first misconception, but it’s worth spelling out: Evolution can have a purpose even if it is a wholly mechanical, material process  —   that is, even if its sole engine is natural selection. After all, clocks have purposes  —   to keep time, a purpose imparted by clockmakers  —   and they’re wholly mechanical. Of course, to suggest that evolution involves the unfolding of some purpose is to suggest that evolution has in some sense been heading somewhere  —   namely, toward the realization of its purpose. Which leads to: Myth number three: Evolution couldn’t have a purpose, because it doesn’t have a direction. The idea that evolution is fundamentally directionless is widespread, in part because one great popularizer of evolution, Stephen Jay Gould, worked hard to leave that impression. As I and others have argued, Gould was at best misleading on this point. And, anyway, even Gould admitted that, yes, on balance evolution tends to create beings of greater and greater complexity. A number of evolutionary biologists would go further and say that evolution was likely, given long enough, to create animals as intelligent as us. In fact, that idea is implicit in Hamilton’s saying the aliens could have “set up” evolution in such a way that “it would produce these really interesting characters  —   humans. ” This part of Hamilton’s scenario requires no intervention on the part of the aliens, because he believed that evolution by natural selection has a kind of direction in the sense that it is likely, given long enough, to produce very intelligent forms of life. (When speaking more precisely, as he did in other parts of the interview, Hamilton would say that the human species per se wasn’t in the cards  —   that it wasn’t inevitable that the first intelligent species would look like us.) With these three myths dispelled, you’re left with this philosophically liberating upshot: You can entertain the possibility that evolution has a purpose, a kind of goal (a “telos,” as philosophers say) without departing from a strictly Darwinian view of evolution  —   without abandoning belief in natural selection as evolution’s only engine, and without surrendering your credentials as a modern, scientifically minded kind of person. In case you’re still feeling a little uneasy about becoming a purpose ponderer, I should emphasize that not all teleological scenarios that pass scientific muster involve space aliens. Indeed, some scientists have suggested that natural selection has a purpose that wasn’t instilled by any kind of intelligent being. This scenario emerges from one version of physicist Lee Smolin’s theory of “cosmological natural selection. ” Smolin thinks our universe may itself be a product of a kind of evolution: maybe universes can replicate themselves via black holes, so over time  —   over a lot of time  —   you get universes whose physical laws are more and more conducive to replication. (So that’s why our universe is so good at   making!) In some variants of Smolin’s theory  —   such as those developed by the late cosmologist Edward Harrison and the mathematician Louis Crane  —   intelligent beings can play a role in this replication once their technology reaches a point where they can produce black holes. So through cosmological natural selection you’d get universes whose physical properties were more and more conducive to the evolution of intelligent life. This might explain the   observation that the physical constants of this universe seem “ ” to permit the emergence of life. Crane, in a recent dialogue on my website meaningoflife. tv, told me that in this scenario “human life —  and I don’t mean on an individual scale, but as a whole —  has a purpose in the same sense that a chicken’s egg has a purpose. The purpose of a chicken’s egg is to create a chicken. ” Crane isn’t using language carelessly here. Some philosophers are comfortable talking about animals having a “purpose” imbued by natural selection (to spread their genes). So if biological evolution is a product of cosmological natural selection, it has a purpose in a defensible sense of that term —  and we’re part of that purpose. So add another item to our listicle: Myth number four: If evolution has a purpose, the purpose must have been imbued by an intelligent being.  That said, one interesting feature of current discourse is a growing openness among some scientifically minded people to the possibility that our world has a purpose that was imparted by an intelligent being. I’m referring to “simulation” scenarios, which hold that our seemingly tangible world is actually a kind of projection emanating from some sort of   powerful computer and the history of our universe, including evolution on this planet, is the unfolding of a computer algorithm whose author must be pretty bright. You may scoff, but in 2003 the philosopher Nick Bostrom of Oxford University published a paper laying out reasons to think that we are pretty likely to be living in a simulation. And the simulation hypothesis has gained influential supporters. Neil deGrasse Tyson, director of the Hayden Planetarium and America’s de facto astronomer laureate, finds it plausible. The visionary tech entrepreneur Elon Musk says there’s almost no chance that we’re living in “base reality. ” The New Yorker reported earlier this year that “two tech billionaires”  —   it didn’t say whether Musk is one of them  —   “have gone so far as to secretly engage scientists to work on breaking us out of the simulation. ” I’m guessing that will take awhile, and meanwhile I’d like to note an irony. When an argument for higher purpose is put this way  —   that is, when it doesn’t involve the phrase “higher purpose” and, further, is cast more as a technological scenario than a metaphysical one  —   it is considered intellectually respectable. I don’t mean there aren’t plenty of people who dismiss it. I’m talking about how people dismiss it. The Bostrom paper drew flack, but a lot of it was from people who thought the chances that we’re living in a simulation are way less than 50 percent, not from people who thought the idea was wholly crazy. If you walked up to the same people who gave Bostrom a respectful hearing and told them there is a transcendent God, many would dismiss the idea out of hand. Yet the simulation hypothesis is a God hypothesis: An intelligence of   power created our universe for reasons we can speculate about but can’t entirely fathom. And, assuming this intelligence still exists, it is in some sense outside of our reality  —   beyond the reach of our senses  —   and yet, presumably, it has the power to intervene in our world. Theology has entered “secular” discourse under another name. Personally, I’m fine with that. I think discussion of higher purpose should be respectable even in a scientific age. I don’t mean I buy the simulation scenario in particular, or the space alien scenario, or the cosmological natural selection scenario. But I do think there’s reason to suspect that there’s some point to this exercise we Earthlings are engaged in, some purpose imbued by something  —   and that, even if identifying that something is for now hopeless, there are grounds for speculating about what the point of the exercise is. I won’t elaborate much on this, since I’ve done that elsewhere, arguing that higher purpose can be framed as a hypothesis, and that evidence for or against the hypothesis can be marshaled. But I will say that the evidence I see for purpose includes not just the direction of biological evolution, but the direction of technological evolution and of the broader social and cultural evolution it drives  —   the evolution that has carried us from   bands to the brink of a cohesive global community. And if the purpose involves sustaining this direction  —   becoming a true global community  —   then it would seem to include moral progress. In particular, our purpose would involve transcending the psychology of tribalism that can otherwise divide people along ethnic, national, religious and ideological lines. Which would mean  —   in light of recent political and social developments in the United States and abroad  —   that our work is cut out for us."
169,17478,Steelers Crush Dolphins to Set Up a Clash With the Chiefs - The New York Times,New York Times,Ben Shpigel,2017-01-09,2017.0,1.0,,"PITTSBURGH  —   The Miami Dolphins won the coin toss Sunday and kicked off to the Pittsburgh Steelers, a decision that in retrospect seemed a tad misguided. But then it was not as if electing to receive would have been a wiser choice. A more prudent, if somewhat unorthodox, strategy would have been doing something else entirely with the football. Hiding it, for example. Maybe beneath the Dolphins’ parkas. Because without the ball, the Steelers’ offense could not score. And if the Steelers’ offense could not score, then the Dolphins might actually have stood a chance of winning Sunday’s playoff game at Heinz Field instead of absorbing a comprehensive demolition. The   defeat, which reaffirmed Pittsburgh as a formidable A. F. C. contender, held less suspense than a romantic comedy. All of 2 minutes 45 seconds elapsed before Pittsburgh scored on an exquisite    (50 yards) by Antonio Brown. That preceded another exquisite    by Brown (62 yards) which preceded a scoring rush by Le’Veon Bell, who accounted for all 78 yards on that drive (excluding a   penalty) all on runs, 10 in a row. It was as if the Steelers kept giving him the ball because they had grown bored of demoralizing Miami through the air. Finishing with 167 yards, Bell set the team   postseason record in his playoff debut. He missed the playoffs two seasons ago with a hyperextended knee. Last year, a torn knee ligament sidelined him. The Steelers have been eagerly waiting for their redoubtable trio of Bell, Brown and quarterback Ben Roethlisberger, who completed his first 11 passes for 188 yards, to play in the postseason together. They combined for all four touchdowns, scored across the first seven series (one was a   before halftime) in a performance that showcased Pittsburgh at the apex of its intimidating might. “We can attack in different ways,” Bell said. All of them are devastating. Especially those that involve Brown, who turned two short passes into long touchdowns, and Bell. Not since Barry Sanders, perhaps, has the N. F. L. seen a running back as destructively patient as Bell. He takes the handoff. Then he waits. “I’m standing back there and I’m watching, and I’m like, ‘Uh, are you going to go any time here? ’” Roethlisberger said of Bell. The length of Bell’s pause varies from play to play, but it allows him to survey the field, set up his blockers and find creases. Accelerating through, he leaves defenders in his wake, then drags them through it. “He’s a man for all situations or circumstances,” Coach Mike Tomlin said. When Miami’s defensive coordinator, Vance Joseph, was asked last week how he prioritized containing Brown, Bell and Roethlisberger, he chose Bell first. “If you can’t contain Bell, you can’t contain A. B. ,” Joseph said, using Brown’s nickname. The Dolphins, overwhelmed by the challenge, did neither. The burden of preparing for the Steelers now belongs to the Kansas City Chiefs, who will host Pittsburgh on Sunday afternoon in a rematch of a Week 4 game. The Steelers won by 29 points that night, but there is folly in perceiving past as prologue. The Dolphins’ resurfacing in the postseason after an   absence elicited much joy not only in South Florida, but also in western Pennsylvania, where the Steelers seethed all week, eager to avenge an October rout. That win ignited Miami’s recovery from a   start and foretold the steamrollering that running back Jay Ajayi, who rushed for 204 yards that day, would administer to defensive game plans. Even thinking about that defeat angered the Steelers’ defensive coordinator, Keith Butler, who said it “really challenges your manhood. ” The Steelers pride themselves on playing a physical style. Shoved around that day, they vowed to inflict pain Sunday. “We just wanted to get out there and be as physical and as violent as we could be,” safety Mike Mitchell said. “Like I said, our   was to tee off on them. It wasn’t to wrap up and make tackles. ” Ajayi exceeded 200 yards twice more during the regular season. He never came close Sunday, smothered by Pittsburgh’s front. He finished with 33 yards on 16 carries. “We always can get better, but we was cooking today,” defensive end Stephon Tuitt said. “It was fun to cook. ” The essence of Mitchell’s proclamation  —   “The goal was to tee off on them I can’t say that enough”  —   permeated the rest of the defense, which nearly turned Miami’s suboptimal quarterback situation even more dire midway through the second quarter. Starting a fourth consecutive week in place of the injured Ryan Tannehill (knee) Matt Moore left the pocket and, after releasing a pass, encountered linebacker Bud Dupree. He did not hit Moore so much as nearly dislodge Moore’s head from his body. “You just see a sack,” said Dupree, who had not yet seen a replay. Moore crumpled to the field and lay there as a skirmish that began near the Miami sideline expanded closer to midfield. It seemed to take less time for Moore to be examined for a concussion, and other injuries, than he spent on the ground. He missed one play. “I got checked out, I felt fine,” Moore said. “It was more of my jaw than anything else. I felt good. I came back in, and I was fine. ” On that drive, the Dolphins kicked a field goal to draw to within  . But on their next two series, on either side of halftime, Moore was   losing the ball  —   and, soon enough, the game for the Dolphins. Pittsburgh, which has won eight straight, has not lost since Nov. 13, when Dallas pilfered a late victory that earned the wrath of Roethlisberger, who demanded afterward that the Steelers play with more discipline and accountability. Those elements returned, and so did the A. F. C. North crown, borrowed for a year by Cincinnati. The Steelers reached this stage of the playoffs last season before losing at Denver. They did not have Bell, or even Brown, who sat with a concussion. Now they have both. And Roethlisberger, who said he would play next week despite an injured ankle encased afterward in a walking boot. And a healthy offensive line. And a snarling defense. But still. “I’m not excited about this,” guard Ramon Foster said after the win. Why? “It’s bigger than this week,” he added, referring to the coming game against the Chiefs."
170,17479,Death of Iran’s Rafsanjani Removes Influential Voice Against Hard-Liners - The New York Times,New York Times,Thomas Erdbrink,2017-01-09,2017.0,1.0,,"TEHRAN  —   With the death of Ayatollah Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani on Sunday, Iran’s political factions knew immediately that any space by reformers to maneuver had just significantly decreased. Change had come, and it did not favor those seeking to turn Iran into a less revolutionary country with more tolerance and outreach to the West  —   especially the United States. Mr. Rafsanjani, a former president who helped found the Islamic republic, had been the one man too large to be sidelined by conservative  . Now he was suddenly gone, dead from what state media described as cardiac arrest  —   and with no one influential enough to fill his shoes. Iran’s   reformists and moderates, who would use Mr. Rafsanjani’s regular calls for more personal freedoms and requests to establish better relations with the United States to advance their political agendas, suddenly felt exposed and weakened. Who would now warn publicly against “Islamic fascism,” when the   sought to influence elections? Who would state openly that there should be a nuclear compromise? Mr. Rafsanjani said things others would not dare to say, all agreed, and his voice had at least created some tolerance for debates. “  will be happy, but this is the start of a period of anxiety for many,” said Fazel Meybodi, a cleric from the holy city Qum who supports reforms in Iran. “His death disturbs the fragile balance we had in Iran. ” There simply are no replacements for Mr. Rafsanjani, analysts from all factions say. His death also reflects the dwindling number of leaders from the generation that overthrew the shah nearly four decades ago. Most are now in their 80s or even older. “It is a very powerful reminder that Iran is at the beginning of a major leadership transition that will play a very psychological role in Iran’s politics,” said Vali R. Nasr, a Middle East scholar who is dean of the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies. “I think this in some ways rattles Iran’s political system, in that it underscores the fact that with everything else going on  —   Syria, the nuclear deal  —   there will be a passing of the baton to the next generation,” Mr. Nasr said. Two of Mr. Rafsanjani’s most important protégés  —   Hassan Rouhani, the current president, and Mohammad Khatami, a former president  —   both owe their political careers to him. But Mr. Rouhani, up for   this year, is fighting for his political life. Mr. Khatami, who has been sidelined by conservative adversaries for years, is now even weaker. Mr. Rouhani managed to create a coalition to win the elections in 2013, with Mr. Rafsanjani’s support. Having successfully negotiated a nuclear agreement with the United States and other big powers, partly from encouragement by Mr. Rafsanjani, Mr. Rouhani promised a bright economic future for Iran  —   which has yet to happen. With the demise of his mentor and protector, Iran’s president will find it hard to gather the same level of support he received four years ago with the backing of Mr. Rafsanjani, analysts say. “He was a very powerful figure for Mr. Rouhani to rely upon,” said Mohammad Marandi, a professor at Tehran University who is close to Iran’s leaders. “Many worked with him because of that support. The passing of Mr. Rafsanjani complicates the president’s position and makes his   less certain. ” Mr. Khatami won presidential elections in 1997 after having received Mr. Rafsanjani’s support, and led Iran through an era of greater personal freedoms and Western outreach that was quashed by unelected,   centers of power. “It is Mr. Khatami who should take on the burden of the late Ayatollah Hashemi Rafsanjani’s responsibility,” said Mohammadreza Shamsolvaezin, a former reformist politician and activist. But Mr. Khatami is all but paralyzed politically. The    judiciary has ordered all Iranian media not to carry his picture or even quote his website. Besides appearances at theater plays, religious gatherings and art exhibitions, Mr. Khatami has remained silent. Mr. Rafsanjani could speak more freely than others, not only because of his revolutionary credentials, but also because of his friendship with Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, whom he helped become supreme leader in 1989. Ayatollah Khamenei, who has skillfully played all Iranian factions, would never go as far as to completely isolate Mr. Rafsanjani, even when he supported protests that followed the disputed 2009 presidential election. While the presidential candidates Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karroubi were placed under house arrest in 2011 for their criticisms, Mr. Rafsanjani was stripped of several functions but never purged. In a statement, Ayatollah Khamenei lamented the passing of Mr. Rafsanjani. Still, it was clear to many that Ayatollah Khamenei regarded him not only as a friend but a rival, whose absence could now make the role of supreme leader even more powerful. “The loss of a comrade and ally, with whom I share a friendship that dates back to 59 years ago, is difficult and ” said a statement posted on Ayatollah Khamenei’s website on Sunday. He also referred obliquely to their disagreements. “Differences in views and interpretations of Islamic law in various points of this long time could never break the friendship,” the statement said. “After him, I cannot think of anyone with whom I share such long history and experience along the highs and lows of historical moments. ”   joined in on the mourning, giving public statements of condolence, but with the realization that the political wind in Iran would now blow even more in their favor. For them Mr. Rafsanjani had been a wild card, who could evoke rulings from the founder of the Islamic republic, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, that would oppose their rigid narrative of isolation and  . Mr. Rafsanjani was especially dangerous, they said, because of his conviction that Iran had changed and that establishing relations with the United States was the only way to secure the future of the Islamic republic. Mr. Rafsanjani also had cordial ties with the leaders of Saudi Arabia, Iran’s principal rival in the Middle East, who share a mutual hostility with Ayatollah Khamenei.   also have faulted Mr. Rafsanjani for having founded a chain of affordable universities during the reconstruction that followed the     war. Some conservatives now blame these schools for having helped sow what they regard as the dangerous modernist aspirations of Iran’s middle class. Many conservatives in Iran also suspected Mr. Rafsanjani of having used his contacts to undercut Ayatollah Khamenei on issues where Ayatollah Khamenei would choose ideology over diplomacy. Mr. Rafsanjani preferred pragmatism and change to keep the ruling system in power. “The invisible hands of the late Ali Akbar Rafsanjani are gone,” said Hamidreza Taraghi, a   political analyst who has close relations with many of Iran’s top leaders. “This means an end to secret meetings by reformists and moderates seeking closer ties with America from now on we can make decisions much easier and with more coordination. ”"
172,17481,It’s Right in the Name: Safes Are Safe. Except for Two on New Year’s Eve. - The New York Times,New York Times,Michael Wilson,2017-01-10,2017.0,1.0,,"They read like descriptions of props from the script of a Hollywood heist caper, with promises to ward off “attacks” on all six sides from the usual suspects: hammer, crowbar, drill, blowtorch, nitroglycerin. That is the language of the brochures and websites of the city’s safe dealers, a small but longstanding industry that manages fears in and around the diamond district not only of disasters like fires or explosions, but also of hypothetical supervillains. When a safe is breached, word travels quickly. What happened? Whose safe was it? How did they get in? Those were the sorts of questions raised last week after a team of burglars broke into a jeweler’s office on West 36th Street on New Year’s Eve. The crime was widely reported for its scope  —   the thieves made off with $6 million in diamonds and other gems  —   and its brazen timing, occurring as the ball dropped six blocks away in a neighborhood teeming with police officers. Surveillance video showing two people hitting a   door with hammers was taken immediately after midnight, the police said, when the sound of cheers would have most likely drowned out any banging. But what happened next is, to many in the safe industry, more important than the forced entry. The two safes that held the valuables, the police said, showed no sign of forced entry. The police have not provided further details on the safes. News reports have suggested investigators are looking into whether someone working for the dealer who provided the safes gave the thieves the combinations. A man answering the telephone at the office of the dealer, Lacka Safe in New Jersey, said on Friday that the owners declined to comment. As that investigation unfolds, the burglary  —   or “attack,” in   security parlance  —   draws attention to the last line of defense for the city’s many jewelers, an object that, for all the advances in technology over the years, remains a box with three sides, a top, a bottom and a door.   safes evoke exciting scenes from the movies, with steely safecrackers listening for clicks or drilling into dense steel with lasers. In reality, though, making safes is a hushed trade built on discretion and trust. “I get calls all the time, ‘Are your people O. K.?’” said Richard Krasilovsky of Empire Safe in Midtown. “How safe is it  —   all puns intended  —   for your people to do the work? The people know where the safe is going. I say it’s a legitimate question to ask. ” Dealers carry an array of safes and locks, including digital locks with keypads and time locks that prevent anyone from opening the door, with or without the combination, while they’re activated. The jewelers of Manhattan historically prefer more traditional designs for their safes, dealers said last week, with mechanical combination locks. “It’s an older industry,” said Dov Israeli of Precision Lock and Safe in Floral Park, N. Y. “They’re focused on price and less on what’s new. ” A jeweler typically requires a certain level of protection to satisfy its insurance company. These levels shown in ratings by Underwriters Laboratories, such as   or   indicate that safecrackers at the lab, using tools and torches, were unable to breach any of the six sides of the safe in 60 or 30 minutes. That is probably a greater margin of safety than the standard jeweler needs. “  point nine nine nine percent of burglars out there can’t penetrate a properly made ” Mr. Krasilovsky said. A brochure for a line of safes at Empire states that they are made of “  and   armor” for “greater protection against attack,” and that they protect against everything from “hammers and simple drills, to thermal and electrical equipment, such as oxyacetylene torches and disk cutters. ” Mr. Krasilovsky said he met potential clients to offer a risk assessment based on what they were protecting and other factors, looking for what he called “an Achilles’ heel. ” “It’s very easy to sell somebody protection, which is a safe,” he said. “I try to sell prevention. Protection is a science. I don’t want the schmucks coming onto the premises. ” A cheaper safe may meet the requirements of an insurance company, while appearing to a burglar to be vulnerable. A technician sets the combination for a safe’s lock for the first time. “We have you write it on a piece of paper,” and hand it to the technician, Mr. Israeli said. Some dealers may keep a copy for a period of time, in case the safe’s owner should need it. “We tear it up  —   we won’t keep a combination for you,” he said. “It’s not even a service we will provide. ”"
174,17483,F.B.I. Arrests Volkswagen Executive on Conspiracy Charge in Emissions Scandal - The New York Times,New York Times,"Adam Goldman, Hiroko Tabuchi and Jack Ewing",2017-01-09,2017.0,1.0,,"The F. B. I. has arrested a Volkswagen executive in Florida, accusing him of playing a central role in a broad conspiracy to keep United States regulators from discovering that diesel vehicles made by the company were programmed to cheat on emissions tests. The executive, Oliver Schmidt, a German who is the former top emissions compliance manager for Volkswagen in the United States, was arrested on Saturday by investigators in Florida on a charge of conspiracy to defraud the United States. He is expected to be arraigned on Monday. The arrest of Mr. Schmidt is an escalation of the criminal investigation into emissions cheating by Volkswagen and comes amid talks between the company and the United States Justice Department about what penalties the carmaker should accept as part of a settlement. After a study by West Virginia University first raised questions over Volkswagen’s diesel motors in early 2014, Mr. Schmidt played a central role in trying to convince regulators that excess emissions were caused by technical problems rather than by deliberate cheating, Ian Dinsmore, an F. B. I. agent, said in a sworn affidavit used as the basis for Mr. Schmidt’s arrest. Mr. Schmidt deceived American regulators “by offering reasons for the discrepancy other than the fact that VW was intentionally cheating on U. S. emissions tests, in order to allow VW to continue to sell diesel vehicles in the United States,” the affidavit said. Mr. Schmidt continued to represent Volkswagen after the company admitted in September that cars were programmed to dupe regulators. He appeared before a committee of the British Parliament in January, telling legislators that Volkswagen’s behavior was not illegal in Europe. Lawyers representing Mr. Schmidt did not respond to requests for comment late Sunday. Officials at the Justice Department also declined to comment, as did an F. B. I. spokesman in Detroit. In a statement, Jeannine Ginivan, a spokeswoman for Volkswagen, said that the automaker “continues to cooperate with the Department of Justice” but that “it would not be appropriate to comment on any ongoing investigations or to discuss personnel matters. ” A Volkswagen spokesman in Germany also declined to comment. Lawsuits filed against Volkswagen by the New York and Massachusetts state attorneys general accused Mr. Schmidt of playing an important role in the carmaker’s efforts to conceal its emissions cheating from United States regulators. In 2014, when California air quality officials began an investigation of Volkswagen emissions, Mr. Schmidt was general manager of Volkswagen’s Engineering and Environmental Office based in Auburn Hills, Mich. For more than a year, he and other Volkswagen officials repeatedly cited false technical explanations for the high emissions levels, the authorities said. In September 2015, Mr. Schmidt and other Volkswagen officials formally acknowledged the existence of a   defeat device that allowed Volkswagen cars to cheat emissions tests. Volkswagen’s   and belated confession angered officials from the California Air Resources Board and the Environmental Protection Agency, and it is likely to have vastly increased the cost to the company from the scandal. It has already agreed to pay $16 billion to owners of diesel vehicles and will probably have to pay several billion dollars more in fines. Volkswagen eventually said that it had fitted 11 million diesel cars worldwide with illegal software that made the vehicles capable of defeating pollution tests. The software enabled the cars to sense when they were being tested for emissions and turn on   systems to curb emissions at the cost of engine performance. But those controls were not fully deployed on the road, where cars spewed nitrogen oxide at up to 40 times the levels allowed under the Clean Air Act. James Liang, a former Volkswagen engineer who worked for the company in California, pleaded guilty in September to charges that included conspiracy to defraud the federal government and violating the Clean Air Act. But Mr. Schmidt’s arrest brings the investigation into the executive ranks. The arrest came as Volkswagen and the Justice Department neared a deal to pay more than $2 billion to resolve the criminal investigation into the emissions cheating. The company or one of its corporate entities is expected to plead guilty as part of the deal. The settlement could come as early as next week, barring any   hiccups, according to people with knowledge of the negotiations. The German automaker has been eager to put the Justice Department investigation behind it before   Donald J. Trump is sworn in on Jan. 20. American prosecutors had traveled to Germany in recent months to interview Volkswagen executives, according to German prosecutors. The criminal case against Volkswagen, and the potential guilty plea, set it apart from other recent auto industry investigations. In settlements with General Motors and Toyota over their handling of safety defects, for example, the companies agreed to pay large fines but did not plead guilty. Prosecutors are also mulling criminal charges against Takata, the Japanese manufacturer under criminal investigation for its defective airbags. Volkswagen has already agreed to pay up to nearly $16 billion to resolve civil claims in what has become one of the largest consumer   settlements ever in the United States, involving half a million cars. Under the settlement, most car owners have the option of either selling their vehicles back to Volkswagen or getting them fixed, provided the automaker could propose a fix that satisfied regulators. The scandal has affected many Volkswagen and Audi models, including the Audi A3 and Volkswagen Beetle, Golf, Jetta and Passat diesel cars."
175,17484,4 Die in Jerusalem Attack as Palestinian Rams Truck Into Soldiers - The New York Times,New York Times,Isabel Kershner,2017-01-09,2017.0,1.0,,"JERUSALEM  —   A Palestinian driver plowed a truck into a group of Israeli soldiers as they were getting off a bus in Jerusalem on Sunday afternoon, killing four and injuring 17 others, according to the police and witnesses. The police called the episode an act of terrorism. Micky Rosenfeld, a police spokesman, said the attacker had been shot, and the police released images showing the truck’s windshield riddled with bullet holes. The dead included three female soldiers and one male soldier, the Israeli military confirmed. Several people were hospitalized, some with critical injuries. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu visited the scene of the attack and said the perpetrator was “by all indications a supporter of the Islamic State. ” “This is part of the same pattern inspired by Islamic State, by ISIS, that we saw first in France, then in Germany and now in Jerusalem. This is part of the same ongoing battle against this global scourge of the new terrorism,” he added. Mr. Netanyahu has often made the comparison between local attacks against Israelis and those in the rest of the world, though the attacks in Israel are more broadly viewed as being more connected to the   conflict. While the Israeli security services have described a few Palestinian attackers as having been inspired by the ideology of the Islamic State, no direct links have been established between them and the organization. The attack on Sunday occurred on the Armon Hanatziv Promenade, a popular tourist spot between East Jerusalem and West Jerusalem that offers sweeping views of the Old City. The four soldiers killed were Erez Orbach, 20, from Alon Shvut, in the West Bank Yael Yekutiel, 20, from Givatayim, near Tel Aviv Shir Hajaja, 22, from Maale Adumim in the West Bank and Shira Tzur, 20, from Haifa. The violence ended several months of relative calm in the contested city, after a period of frequent stabbings, shootings and car attacks. It also underlined the volatility of the situation at a time when   Donald J. Trump has promised to move the United States Embassy to Jerusalem from Tel Aviv, a potentially explosive step that American administrations have avoided for decades. Palestinian officials say it would destroy the chances of any peace process by prejudging the outcome, and some have said it would constitute a declaration of war against Palestinians. Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank, said on Friday that the Palestinians would view any such change in the status quo in Jerusalem as the crossing of a red line. Mosque preachers addressed the proposed embassy move in their sermons during Friday prayers, apparently on the instruction of the Palestinian Authority. The Palestinians demand East Jerusalem as the capital of a future Palestinian state. Israel captured the area from Jordan in the 1967 war and claims sovereignty there. Hamas, the Islamic militant group that holds sway in Gaza, praised Sunday’s attack, without taking responsibility for it. Fawzi Barhoum, a Hamas official, described it as a “courageous and heroic operation. ” In Gaza City, people were handing out sweets to   in celebration. Nickolay Mladenov, the United Nations special coordinator for the Middle East peace process, condemned the attack in a statement. “It is reprehensible that some choose to glorify such acts, which undermine the possibility of a peaceful future for both Palestinians and Israelis,” he said. “There is nothing heroic in such actions. ” The Palestinian official news agency, WAFA, identified the driver of the truck as Fadi Ahmad   28, a resident of the nearby Palestinian neighborhood of Jabel Mukaber in East Jerusalem. Ribhi Ewiysat, a resident of the neighborhood, said that a large number of Israeli security forces had entered the area and were at the attacker’s house. Chaim Newman, a tour guide who was accompanying the group of soldiers at the scene, told Israel Radio, “The soldiers got off the bus, and we were getting organized when suddenly the truck came with great speed and rammed into the group. ” “Civilians and soldiers began shooting, and this prevented a worse tragedy,” he added. “He rammed them a number of times, going into reverse and forward in order to hurt more people. ” Chen Lendi Sharon, a paramedic from the Magen David Adom ambulance service, said there was “chaos on the scene” when she arrived. “I saw a truck that rammed youngsters getting off the bus next to the Armon Hanatziv observation point. ” Ms. Lendi Sharon said that at least 10 people were trapped under the bus or were lying on the grass by the road. The attack occurred around 1:30 p. m. Dozens of soldiers were getting off buses at the site as part of a routine educational tour of Jerusalem. Aged 18 to 21, they were cadets from an officers’ course, Israel Radio reported. About two hours after the attack, the truck, a white flatbed with a crane on the back, remained at the scene and an ambulance was still removing bodies. Dovy Meyer, a spokesman for the United Hatzalah ambulance service who was at the scene, said that around 100 soldiers had been milling about when the attack occurred. A spate of deadly stabbings, shootings and car attacks began in October 2015 and quickly spread from Jerusalem and the West Bank to cities around Israel. More than 30 Israelis and two American visitors were among those killed in the attacks. More than 240 Palestinians have been killed during that period, many of them while carrying out or intending to carry out attacks, according to Israeli officials. Several attackers have come from the Jabel Mukaber neighborhood. Mr. Netanyahu said the neighborhood had been “encircled” by security forces on Sunday."
176,17485,‘Hidden Figures’ Ties ‘Rogue One’ at Box Office - The New York Times,New York Times,Brooks Barnes,2017-01-08,2017.0,1.0,,"LOS ANGELES  —   It was a surprise photo finish at the weekend box office, with the   drama “Hidden Figures” and “Rogue One: A Star Wars Story” each selling an estimated $22 million in tickets at North American theaters. Most analysts had expected “Rogue One” (Disney) to easily repeat as the No. 1 multiplex attraction. The “Star Wars” spinoff has now collected about $477. 3 million over four weeks. Overseas, it has taken in another $437 million. But in its first weekend in wide release “Hidden Figures” (20th Century Fox) about unsung black heroines in the NASA space race of the 1960s, was lifted by strong reviews, an aggressive   marketing campaign that included a   appeal to faith audiences, and attention on Hollywood’s annual awards circuit. Fox said “Hidden Figures,” directed by Theodore Melfi and starring Octavia Spencer, Taraji P. Henson and Janelle Monáe, did particularly well in San Francisco, Washington, Chicago and Cleveland. Produced by Chernin Entertainment and Levantine Films for about $25 million, after accounting for tax credits, “Hidden Figures” received an   grade from ticket buyers in CinemaScore exit polls. The movie was most popular with women (64 percent of the audience) and people over the age of 35 (about 56 percent of attendees). The animated musical “Sing” (Universal) was next in line, taking in about $20 million, for a   domestic total of $213. 4 million. The weekend’s other new   movie, “Underworld: Blood Wars” (Sony) only managed $13 million in ticket sales, or nearly 50 percent less than the initial results for its 2012 franchise predecessor. Sony noted that “Blood Wars” also cost half as much to make  —   about $35 million  —   and has already taken in $45 million overseas. Sony also blamed winter storms in the Eastern United States for decreasing turnout. Among specialty releases: “Manchester by the Sea” (Roadside Attractions) sold about $2. 5 million in tickets in 1, 054 theaters, lifting its total to $34 million “Patriots Day” (CBS Films and Lionsgate) about the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing, had $105, 000 in seven locations, ahead of its nationwide release on Friday."
177,17486,Israeli Embassy Official Plotted to ‘Take Down’ U.K. Politicians - The New York Times,New York Times,Steven Erlanger,2017-01-09,2017.0,1.0,,"LONDON  —   In a deeply embarrassing episode revealed on Sunday, a senior employee of the Israeli Embassy in Britain was recorded plotting to “take down” senior British politicians critical of Israel and calling Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson “an idiot” who “has become minister of foreign affairs without any responsibilities. ” The Israeli ambassador, Mark Regev, offered a formal apology on Friday, according to a statement from the Israeli Embassy. The embassy also said that the employee, Shai Masot, who described himself as a former major in the Israeli Army now working as a political officer, would soon leave his job. Mr. Masot made the comment in October, in footage filmed in a London restaurant and obtained by the newspaper The Mail on Sunday. The recording was made by an Al Jazeera reporter acting undercover, who called himself Robin and who described himself as working for a political group called Labour Friends of Israel, which rejected any connection to him. The conversation involved Mr. Masot and Maria Strizzolo, an aide to Robert Halfon, an education minister and former political director of Conservative Friends of Israel. Mr. Masot was particularly eager to target Alan Duncan, a minister in the Foreign Office who has been critical of Israel and its settlements in occupied Palestinian territory, a sensitive issue in British politics. Mr. Duncan, he said, “is causing a lot of problems. ” In the footage, Mr. Masot asked Ms. Strizzolo, “Can I give you some M. P. s that I would suggest you would take down?” he asked. He went on to say that she knew which M. P. s  —   members of Parliament  —   he was referring to. She asked him to remind her. “The deputy foreign minister,” he said, referring to Mr. Duncan. She said, “You still want to go for it?” His reply was ambiguous, but he said that Mr. Duncan was still causing problems. Ms. Strizzolo then asked, “I thought we had, you know, neutralized him just a little bit, no?” Mr. Masot answered, “No. ” Mr. Masot also mocked the opposition Labour leader, Jeremy Corbyn, whom he called “crazy,” and his “weirdo” supporters. Ms. Strizzolo told the newspaper that her conversation with Mr. Masot was “   and gossipy. ” But Crispin Blunt, a member of Parliament and the chairman of the Select Committee on Foreign Affairs, said the “apparent activity of a diplomat of a foreign state,” in reference to Mr. Masot, was “formally outrageous and deserving of investigation. ” (In the video, Mr. Masot was also very critical of Mr. Blunt.) Stuart Polak, a member of the House of Lords and the director of Conservative Friends of Israel, said, “We utterly condemn any attempt to undermine Sir Alan, or any minister, or any member of Parliament. ” In its statement, the Israeli Embassy said it “rejects the remarks concerning Minister Duncan, which are completely unacceptable” and described Mr. Masot as “a junior embassy employee who is not an Israeli diplomat, and who will be ending his term of employment with the embassy shortly. ” Mr. Regev, the statement said, spoke to Mr. Duncan on Friday to apologize “and made clear that the embassy considered the remarks to be completely unacceptable. ” Reached on Sunday, Yiftah Curiel, the embassy spokesman, said that Mr. Masot was “not a diplomat and not a   member of diplomatic corps  —   he’s an assistant to the deputy ambassador, who handles parliamentary affairs. ” Mr. Masot, sent from Israel, has been at the embassy for about a year, on a contract that is being terminated. Mr. Curiel emphasized that the Foreign Office judged the issue concluded. “The Israeli ambassador has apologized and is clear these comments do not reflect the views of the embassy or government of Israel,” a Foreign Office spokesman said in a statement. “The U. K. has a strong relationship with Israel, and we consider the matter closed. ”"
179,17488,Queen Elizabeth II Makes First Public Appearance Since Dec. 9 - The New York Times,New York Times,Jonah Engel Bromwich,2017-01-09,2017.0,1.0,,"Queen Elizabeth II made her first public appearance in almost a month on Sunday, allaying concerns about her health after she missed Christmas and New Year’s Day church services because of what Buckingham Palace described as a persistent cold. The queen, who will turn 91 in April, attended services at St. Mary Magdalene Church in Sandringham, England, with Prince William, the Duke of Cambridge, and his wife, as well as several members of the Duchess of Cambridge’s family, including her sister, Pippa, and brother, James. Before Sunday, the queen, whose appearances are usually a staple of the holiday season, had not been seen in public since Dec. 9. Her absence on Christmas Day was the first time in 30 years that she had not attended the holiday service.   on social media celebrated the queen’s reappearance. “The Queen has been seen in public,” one Twitter user said. “Huge relief. I can sleep easy in my bed now. ” The queen’s   came several weeks after a widespread Twitter hoax started by a fake BBC account that convinced many of her fans that she had died. Despite feeling under the weather, the queen managed to record her traditional Christmas broadcast. “The message of Christmas reminds us that inspiration is a gift to be given as well as received, and that love begins small but always grows,” she said then. “I wish you all a very happy Christmas. ”"
181,17490,Hillary Clinton Receives Ovation at ‘The Color Purple’ - The New York Times,New York Times,Michael Paulson and Michael Barbaro,2017-01-08,2017.0,1.0,,"Hillary Clinton, who has kept a relatively low public profile since losing the presidential election two months ago, on Sunday showed up at the final performance of the Broadway revival of “The Color Purple,” reveling in the story of a beleaguered woman who triumphs over the oppressive men in her life (and, along the way, discovers a love for colorful pants). Mrs. Clinton, accompanied by her husband, former President Bill Clinton, and their daughter, Chelsea, received several ovations from the   audience as she arrived, and then another round of applause when she was acknowledged by the cast after the show. “There’s a lot of really awesome famous and notable people here today,” the actress Patrice Covington, who gave the farewell speech on behalf of the cast after the show, said to the audience. “I’m not going to call all of them out  —   I know you already know them,” she said, before pausing, looking in Mrs. Clinton’s direction, and waving at her mischievously. At that, the audience erupted into a new, loud round of applause. The reaction was substantially warmer than the scattered booing and clapping that greeted the arrival of Vice   Mike Pence when he attended “Hamilton,” just one block north, on Nov. 18. “We love you Hillary,” some audience members shouted. Several thanked Mrs. Clinton and told her, “God bless you. ” “God bless you,” Mrs. Clinton replied. Mrs. Clinton was besieged by   before the show, at intermission and as she was ushered out a side door after the musical ended (“Whoa!” said her husband as they left.) Jordan Serpone, 33, an audience member from Boston, said that spotting Mrs. Clinton was a surprisingly moving experience for him. “I was having every emotion I’ve tried to get rid of over the past few weeks,” he said during intermission. He shook her hand, but said he is still filled with frustration over her loss. “She shouldn’t be here. She should be planning her cabinet,” he said. Because the Sunday matinee was the last performance for the acclaimed production, which won last year’s Tony award for best musical revival, the crowd was starry: Among those in the audience were Jonathan Groff, Mariska Hargitay, Gayle King, Debra Messing, Leslie Odom Jr. Billy Porter, Phylicia Rashad and Anna Wintour. Public sightings of Mrs. Clinton in the weeks since the election have been sufficiently rare that they create a stir on social media. Strangers have sought photographs with her at stores and in the woods near her home in Chappaqua, N. Y. But Mrs. Clinton has indicated that she and her husband plan to attend the inauguration of Donald J. Trump as president on Jan. 20. “The Color Purple” tells the searing story of a young black woman abused by her stepfather and her husband in rural Georgia in the early 20th century. The musical is an adaptation of a   1982 novel, by Alice Walker, which was awarded the 1983 Pulitzer Prize for fiction. Steven Spielberg adapted the novel into a film in 1985, and Oprah Winfrey, who was featured in the film, went on to become an important champion, and   of the musical. The musical has been one of the most successful at attracting black audiences to Broadway. It first opened on Broadway in 2005, and features a book by Marsha Norman and music and lyrics by Stephen Bray, Brenda Russell and Allee Willis. The revival, which opened in 2015 and was directed by John Doyle, featured a   performance by the British actress Cynthia Erivo. She won a Tony award for best actress in a leading role in a musical. The last show took place on Ms. Erivo’s 30th birthday."
182,17491,Ireland Reconsiders Its Constitutional Ban on Abortion - The New York Times,New York Times,Sinead O’Shea,2017-01-09,2017.0,1.0,,"DUBLIN  —   An assembly of Irish citizens convened by Parliament is considering changes to one of the most divisive policies in the country: the   ban on abortions, which has been enshrined in Ireland’s Constitution since 1983. The group, a   Citizens’ Assembly led by Mary Laffoy, a Supreme Court judge, does not have the power to change the law. But its mandate from Parliament  —   to examine the full range of medical, legal and ethical issues surrounding abortion  —   suggests a willingness to revisit the ban, one of the most stringent in the Western world. Over the last three months, the assembly has received more than 13, 500 comments from the public  —   more than 1, 000 of which have been published online so far. It pored over these submissions at the Grand Hotel Malahide over the weekend, along with testimony from experts, and is scheduled to issue a report later this year. Abortion was already illegal in Ireland before 1983, but the Eighth Amendment gave “the right to life of the unborn” equal status to “the right to life of the mother” under the Constitution. The amendment was enacted through a voter referendum, and can be altered  —   or abandoned  —   only via another referendum. Several highly publicized cases since then have contributed to and reflected a shift in the public’s mood, however. In 2012, a    woman, Savita Halappanavar, died from septic shock while having a miscarriage, after a hospital denied her an abortion that might have saved her life. And last year, a United Nations committee ruled that Ireland had violated a woman’s rights by forcing her to travel abroad for an abortion even though severe congenital defects had been diagnosed in the fetus. Legal uncertainty over how to define “the unborn” has long dogged the amendment, and the assembly was seen as one response to the panel’s criticisms. It is common for women in Ireland to travel to countries such as Britain and the Netherlands for abortions. Figures from Britain’s National Health Service showed that more than 3, 400 women gave Irish addresses to British abortions clinics in 2015. That said, Ireland remains a conservative society, and the Roman Catholic Church opposes any change in the law. “We believe that every unborn child, irrespective of his or her medical condition or the circumstances of his or her birth, has the right to be treated equally before the law,” the bishops’ conference said in a statement. Submissions posted online expressed a wide range of views, with many of them offering deeply personal perspectives. Leslie Spillane, a woman in her 20s from Cork, in southwestern Ireland, wrote that several of her friends had traveled abroad to terminate their pregnancies. “These friends of mine are also the lucky ones, they have been able to borrow the money for the travel, and they have had friends they could tell,” she wrote. “Abortions happen, everyday. Making them illegal doesn’t stop woman needing, or wanting them, or inflicting them on themselves  —   there will always be coat hangers, broken bottles, painkillers, stairs to fall down, fists to hit, medicines to swallow. ” In a phone interview, she said that “even if you don’t agree with abortion, it’s not morally acceptable to force your views onto others. ” Defenders of the law were equally adamant. “Abortion, in our firm belief, is the taking of human life irrespective of the stage of pregnancy,” wrote Kathleen Gleeson and her husband, Raymond Gleeson, from County Kerry, in southwestern Ireland. Valerie Marjoram, a woman in her 30s in County Kildare, just west of Dublin, described herself as a feminist who opposed abortion on religious grounds. “I find it appalling that a certain brand of feminism would put more effort into obtaining the legal sanction of murdering one’s own child than fighting for the right to carry a child to term without losing one’s pay, career path, promotion, college place,” she said in a phone interview. “The fact that abortion is legal in any country has led to a culture of selfishness where even life can be rescheduled if it happens at the ‘wrong time. ’” The Eighth Amendment has been subject to legal and political challenges over the years. In 1992, Ireland’s highest court upheld the right to an abortion if the mother’s life is at risk, including from suicide, but how to interpret that right remains in dispute. In 1992, voters approved an amendment to the Constitution to allow women to travel abroad for abortions and to receive information about abortion services abroad. And in that year, and again in 2002, voters rejected amendments that would have removed the threat of suicide as grounds for a legal abortion. Conor O’Mahony, a lecturer in law at University College Cork, says the continued contentiousness reveals problems with the wording of the ban. “The Eighth Amendment doesn’t work as a means of regulating abortion, whether you are coming from the   or abortion rights perspective,” he said in a phone interview. “And the evidence I would give you is that neither side has ever been happy with how that amendment has been interpreted and applied over the years. ” He said that public opinion had been gradually shifting in favor of legalizing abortion  —   particularly in cases involving severe fetal abnormalities or rape  —   but predicted that the debate would continue for years even if a referendum was to take place in the near future. Gerard Whyte, a professor of law at Trinity College Dublin, said in a phone interview that it would be unwise to simply repeal the amendment, as some   advocates seek. “If there is no constitutional protection for the unborn, then there is a problem and we’re into uncharted territory,” he said. “I’m simply warning about a situation whereby people decide to repeal the Eighth but don’t add anything else. ”"
183,17492,Rick Ross Documentary Video Doubles as Ad for Checkers - The New York Times,New York Times,Zach Schonbrun,2017-01-09,2017.0,1.0,,"In an effort to give back to his hometown community in Florida, Carol City, the   star Rick Ross decided to fulfill a childhood dream: He bought a Checkers   franchise. Why a Checkers? One reason seemed to rise above them all. “The No. 1 fries in the game,” Mr. Ross says in a   video released in December. The video shows Mr. Ross driving around town in his Ford truck, puffing cigars and relating stories from his childhood in the downtrodden community, which is in the Miami area. At a certain point, Mr. Ross begins talking about the burger joint he frequented as a teenager, across the thoroughfare from the carwash where he worked. There was a McDonald’s that was closer, but Checkers, he says, was more affordable. “I made $30 a day from 8 in the morning to 8 at night,” Mr. Ross says. “I went to Checkers. ” Checkers does not typically pursue celebrity endorsements. But when Mr. Ross applied to purchase the Carol City franchise last summer, he seemed so genuine in his affection for the   chain that Checkers recognized a marketing opportunity as straightforward as a  . Still, it did not want a typical campaign. Scott Wakeman, director of marketing for Checkers   Restaurants Inc. and the company’s ad firm, Fitzgerald  Company in Atlanta, turned to the    digital media upstart Woven Digital. The firm has heavy traction among Mr. Ross’s primary audience  —   young men  —   on the entertainment sites that it owns, like Uproxx, Dime and BroBible. Woven has also specialized in   productions that, on the surface, do not feel like ads. To Mr. Wakeman, it seemed like a perfect way to take advantage of Mr. Ross’s charisma and authenticity. “It just felt like such a unique opportunity,” he said. The video, which is 3 minutes 31 seconds long, was filmed over two days in Carol City in late September, mostly as Mr. Ross drove his truck around. Spliced in is footage of pickup basketball games and bikers popping wheelies. The first mention of Checkers comes about halfway through the video. Checkers invests the bulk of its annual marketing budget, about $20 million, in standard television spots, Mr. Wakeman said. By contrast, the Rick Ross ad has been distributed only on social media channels and Uproxx. But Mr. Wakeman said he believed the unusual authenticity of the video  —   and the compelling way Mr. Ross related his story  —   would resonate with viewers more than anything Checkers had tried in the past. “We don’t think of it as an advertisement,” Mr. Wakeman said, adding of Mr. Ross, “We wanted to create a piece of content that captured his love for the brand. ” Last year, Woven teamed up with MillerCoors on a series of short documentary videos that profiled entrepreneurs with expertise in making items like watches and surfboards, or, in one case, doing calligraphy. The   series, sponsored by Coors Banquet beer and run across Uproxx, was intended to reach an audience that has become adept at avoiding traditional advertising. According to Brad Feinberg, senior director of media and digital marketing for MillerCoors, it was a success, receiving more than 33 million views. “This is content that people want to see they’re intrigued by it, they seek it out,” Mr. Feinberg said. “And putting it in long form is something you can do in the digital space that is very cost prohibitive in other places. ”   storytelling might sound incompatible with the   attention spans of millennials, but it can have its advantages. Young men in particular have demonstrated a willingness to sit through longer pieces of content if it aligns with their values and gives them something of value in return, said Leah Swartz, senior content specialist for FutureCast, a part of the Barkley agency of Kansas City, Mo. that focuses on research into millennials. Her team considers this a rewriting of the old ABCs of sales. Rather than the mantra “always be closing,” brands must now think about how they can “always be helping. ” “You have to think about helping your consumer, what you’re providing, what benefits you’re giving, how you’re making their lives more fulfilled,” Ms. Swartz said. For Checkers, turning a story about a hit rapper’s upbringing into a selling point for hamburgers and chicken wings was a bit of a gamble, Mr. Wakeman said. In the video, there are only a couple of references to Checkers’ products, such as Mr. Ross’s unequivocal praise of the French fries. But Mr. Wakeman said the documentary format allowed Mr. Ross’s true voice to shine through. “Food and value are our two big brand pillars, and I think they come through in the spot, in a cool way,” Mr. Wakeman said. “It wasn’t a script. It was just Rick talking about what he loves” about the place. The video also captures moments of spontaneity. The producers originally intended just to film Mr. Ross outside the Checkers, but on the way there, he sent out a message on Instagram offering free burgers to any fans who wanted to meet him in Carol City. About 200 people showed up, and the cameras rolled as he shook hands and ripped open bags of food. Benjamin Blank, the chief executive of Woven, said the company was not trying to conceal that the video was an advertisement. But he said he thought the content itself was meaningful and captivating enough that   viewers ultimately would not mind being sold to. “There were plenty of things Rick could have gotten involved with from a business standpoint,” Mr. Blank said. “But his reason for getting involved with Checkers was a great story. ”"
185,17494,Seeing America Through Ángel Franco’s Eyes - The New York Times,New York Times,Dan Barry,2017-01-04,2017.0,1.0,,"Times Insider delivers    insights into life at The New York Times. In a large newsroom, the collaboration between a reporter and a photographer often depends on the whims of their respective assigning editors, who calculate strengths, weaknesses, and, most of all, availability. Who’s up to cover that fire? Who’s up to shoot it? The resulting slapdash teamwork between writer and photographer can end as quickly as it began they may work together the next day, or never again. But for many years now, I have been fortunate to work with exceptional New York Times photographers for extended periods of time while writing a national column called “This Land. ” Lately, I have been collaborating with Todd Heisler, a stunningly gifted photographer and a great companion. Before Todd, I traveled for several years beside the recently retired Nicole Bengiveno, whose profound empathy comes through in her camera’s every click, and who deserves some formal commendation for having put up with a certain hack  —   me  —   for so long. And before Nicole, there was Ángel Franco, who retired last month to end a storied Times career  —   and who began the “This Land” column with me 10 years ago this month. The template for our relationship  —   indeed, for “This Land”  —   was established in early 2007, as we headed out to do our inaugural column, one on Logan, a small West Virginia city struggling with a fatal mine disaster and the decline of King Coal. Mr. Franco and I began by walking the streets, noticing: the coal train running through the city’s core the dust settling on buildings along the tracks and the Jesus Christ carved from anthracite, prominent in a store’s window display. Noticing  —   that was the word for it. At one point we went to a small diner, and engaged in a brief exchange with the waitress. After she had taken our order, I asked, “Did you hear what she said?” And Mr. Franco repeated her words exactly: “‘Are we ready yet, children? ’” There it was. As with Todd and Nicole, as with so many other photographers  —   and may God forgive any reporter who uses the term “my photographer”  —   Mr. Franco is an attentive observer, witnessing and listening always. In that   diner, I knew that my Times colleague embraced the storytelling worth of the small and quiet moment. This is going to be fun, I thought. For the next two years, Mr. Franco and I produced a column a week, just about, and wound up filing    dispatches from each of the 50 states. This, of course, was madness. Our weeks would often begin on Monday at Newark Liberty International Airport, and end on Friday, or Saturday, even Sunday, with frantic efforts to figure out where to go to next. Louisiana? Montana? Maine? (The only way we were able to maintain some semblance of sanity, by the way, was by having the great Cate Doty help us with possible story ideas, travel logistics and dinner recommendations she was a full partner in this misbegotten venture. I also owe a debt of gratitude to then National desk editor, Suzanne Daley, and then deputy national editor, David Firestone, both of whom were integral in allowing “This Land” to begin.) You can look it up. We went to a retirement home in  Penney Farms, Fla. to visit the coroner in “The Wizard of Oz. ” To Havana, Ill. to report on the Asian carp infesting the Illinois River. To Kalaupapa, Hawaii, to meet the last residents of a colony to which those with leprosy, also known as Hansen’s disease, were once relegated. To Nashville to witness an execution by electric chair. To Bethel, Alaska, to explore the    games of bootleggers. To Bill, Wyo.  —   population five, maybe  —   to stay in a new hotel catering to railway workers. To Cottage Grove, Wis. to meet the pastor who baptized Jeffrey Dahmer in a prison whirlpool. To Michigan’s Upper Peninsula, to uncover the    intrigue at a county fair’s  . To Denver, to cover the annual convention of the Sovereign Grand Lodge of the Independent Order of Odd Fellows (where we felt perfectly at home). Kalispell, Mont. Lake Mead, Nev. Ainsworth, Neb. Newport, Ind. Pascagoula, Miss. Greensburg, Kan. Hollywood, Md. Sylva, N. C. The datelines blur into one American story, captured in all its breadth by Mr. Franco and his camera. I often had no idea what to do for the next column. One Saturday morning, while scanning online newspapers for ideas, I noticed a news brief about a farewell breakfast in a V. F. W. hall in Mohave Valley, Ariz. for a high school graduate named Resha Kane. After the meal, she was to be taken by motorcycle escort to Las Vegas, to catch a flight to Fort Hood, where she would begin her Army career in exchange for college tuition. I called my good friend Mr. Franco  —   who, of course, got it immediately. We flew out the next day, and were present when Ms. Kane, who looked much younger than her 18 years, said her goodbyes. Mr. Franco’s memorable photograph of this young woman in fatigues, saying goodbye to her father  —   the fear of her unknown, of our unknown, conveyed in her eyes  —   hangs in the newsroom. Once again he had noticed, and captured, that small and quiet moment. Working closely with Mr. Franco for two years, I could not help but be blown away by his fierce dedication to his art, by his determination to capture a moment’s essence  —   and by his unflagging reportorial curiosity, which led to my favorite moments on assignment: the evening debriefing. Sitting in a booth at a Chili’s or Texas Roadhouse hard against some interstate, Mr. Franco and I would pore over what we had just seen and heard, comparing notes, dissecting motives, framing The Story to come. One modest testament to Mr. Franco’s art is in how I remember our travels. It’s not my opening paragraphs or closing kickers that I recall, but rather Mr. Franco’s photographs, which return me so completely to the Mississippi despair of a   FEMA trailer, to the   joy of a small Maine amusement park, to the expansive wonder of a remote South Dakota spot known as the Center of the Nation. It is a rare privilege to see this great country, in all its heartbreaking,   wonder, on the dime of your employer. A rarer privilege, still, to have also seen it through the   eyes of Ángel Franco."
189,17498,Muted Response From Health Lobby as Affordable Care Act Faces Repeal - The New York Times,New York Times,Robert Pear,2017-01-10,2017.0,1.0,,"WASHINGTON  —   The speed of Republican efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act has stunned health industry lobbyists, leaving representatives of insurance companies, hospitals, doctors and pharmaceutical makers in disarray and struggling for a response to a legislative quick strike that would upend much of the American health care system. The Senate is expected to take the first step by Thursday morning, approving parliamentary language in a budget resolution that would   a repeal bill that could not be filibustered in the Senate. House and Senate committees would have until Jan. 27 to report out repeal legislation. Health insurance and health care for millions of Americans are at risk. But far from reflecting the magnitude of the moment, the most prominent message from lobbyists that lawmakers saw in their first week back at work was a narrowly focused advertisement from the U. S. Chamber of Commerce demanding the repeal of “Obamacare taxes,” especially an annual fee imposed on health insurance companies to help pay for the expansion of coverage under the health law. “More than 20 million people could lose their health insurance, and states could lose billions of dollars in Medicaid money,” said Kenneth E. Raske, the president of the Greater New York Hospital Association. But, he added, many health care executives “don’t want to get on the wrong side of the new administration or the Republican majority in Congress. ” Health care professionals are not totally silent, but industries that were integral to the creation of the Affordable Care Act in 2010 are keeping their voices down as Republicans rush to dismantle it. Some Republican lawmakers are openly fretting about their leaders’ repeal strategy, saying they must develop an Affordable Care Act replacement before they repeal it. Five Republican senators proposed on Monday to extend the deadline for drafting repeal legislation by five weeks, until March 3. One of the five, Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee, said the extra time would allow Congress and the Trump administration to “get the policy right” as they try to arrange a smooth transition to a new system of health coverage. But the naysayers are getting no cover from a major lobbying and advertisement blitz like the ones that blanketed the airwaves in 2009 and 2010. To block the repeal effort, said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Senate Democrat, “we need two or three Republicans to join us. ” Doctors are telling Congress to proceed with caution, insisting that no one should lose coverage. The American College of Physicians, representing 148, 000 specialists in internal medicine, has sent letters to senators urging them to “vote no” this week on the budget resolution. Hospitals were expecting to receive tens of billions of dollars in additional revenue for treating people who were newly insured under the health law, and they are alarmed at the prospect that it may now be repealed. But, they say, if Congress goes ahead and rolls back the expansion of coverage, it must also restore tens of billions of dollars that the health law cut from Medicare payments to hospitals. Top executives from state hospital associations will fly to Washington this week to develop their strategy. Many also plan to visit offices on Capitol Hill, where they will warn of the potential damage if Congress repeals the health law without guaranteeing similar coverage for those who would lose it. A coalition of consumers and liberal advocacy groups is spending more than $2 million on television advertisements urging Congress to stop its attack on the law. The ads, by the Alliance for Healthcare Security, are aimed at a handful of Republican senators, including Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, Jeff Flake and John McCain of Arizona, Susan Collins of Maine, Dean Heller of Nevada, Lamar Alexander and Mr. Corker of Tennessee, and Shelley Moore Capito of West Virginia. But by Washington standards, that is a pittance. Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, an industry lobbying group, set aside $150 million in 2009 to support the law’s passage. Some lobbyists have tacitly accepted the likelihood that major provisions of the health law will be repealed, setting their sights instead on shaping its replacement. They fear that if they come out strongly in opposition to repealing the law, they will lose their seats at the table as congressional Republicans and the Trump administration negotiate a replacement. For now, passage of the budget resolution this week looks likely. The real fight is expected to come two to three weeks from now, when two House committees and two Senate committees produce legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act and must answer to Republicans who say a replacement measure must be ready at the same time. At least a   Republican senators have expressed doubts about the Republican leadership strategy of using the budget resolution to   legislation to repeal the law, with a delayed effective date to allow time to find a replacement in the future. “Repeal and replacement should take place simultaneously,” Mr. Corker said last week. Senator Tom Cotton of Arkansas said on MSNBC, “It would not be the right path for us to repeal Obamacare without laying out a path forward. ” Members of the   House Freedom Caucus are also pressing leaders to embrace a replacement bill before they eviscerate the existing law. And that concern is not confined to Congress. Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio, a Republican, has also warned Congress against repealing the law without a replacement. What, he has asked, will happen to the 700, 000 people who have gained coverage under the expansion of Medicaid in Ohio? Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, said that he spoke on Friday with   Donald J. Trump, and that Mr. Trump agreed a replacement measure must be ready. “I think he consistently has said, and I think many people who look at this say, ‘Gosh, you’re going to repeal this huge, dramatic thing and not have a replacement on the same day? ’” Mr. Paul said on Monday. “I mean, doesn’t make a lot of sense to do that. ” Many of the lobbyists who might have slowed the process appear flummoxed, in part because they were expecting Hillary Clinton to win the election. Some companies, anxious about changes in health policy, said they were afraid to speak out because they feared that Mr. Trump would attack them on Twitter, as he has badgered Boeing, Ford, General Motors, Lockheed Martin and Toyota. Marilyn B. Tavenner, the chief executive of the leading lobby for insurers, America’s Health Insurance Plans, is in a particularly awkward position. As an Obama administration official from 2010 to 2015, she led work on the health law, issued rules to carry it out and often defended it on Capitol Hill. In December 2015, Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin pointed to her as an example of how federal officials passed through a revolving door to work for companies they once regulated. “If the insurance industry does not understand how Obamacare works, why not hire the person who ran it?” Mr. Ryan said in a gibe at Ms. Tavenner that drew laughter from his audience at the Library of Congress. Ms. Tavenner said the requirement for people to have insurance  —   the individual mandate  —   was likely to be eliminated. But, she said, to stabilize the market, Congress should maintain “subsidies for   and   individuals to purchase insurance and financial help for plans that enroll   individuals, through at least Jan. 1, 2019. ” She is also asking Congress to kill the tax on insurers, which has already been suspended for 2017. Kaiser Permanente, the managed care company that serves more than 10 million people, declined to comment specifically on Republican plans to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Instead, it offered a statement of general principles saying that people should have access to health care and that “we must continue to accommodate those who have   conditions. ” George C. Halvorson, a former chief executive of Kaiser Permanente, said insurers were guarded in their comments because the current environment was “extremely politicized. ” He predicted they have more to say when Congress turns to the task of devising a replacement for the law. “You need to make your point when it will have optimal impact,” Mr. Halvorson said. Lobbyists for the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association have been more active and outspoken. They support changes to the health care law because, they say, premiums and deductibles are too high and commercial insurers have been dropping out of the public insurance marketplaces.   of counties in the United States have only one insurer offering coverage in the marketplace, they say, and in many cases, it is a Blue Cross plan. But Blue Cross lobbyists expressed alarm that Congress or a federal court might eliminate the   subsidies that the government pays insurers to reduce    costs for   people. Without these payments, Blue Cross wrote in a primer delivered to congressional offices, consumers will see “significant premium increases in 2018, making coverage even more unaffordable for millions of working Americans. ” While defenders of the Affordable Care Act try to figure out a strategy, conservative groups are pressing hard for full repeal of the law as soon as possible. Among them are Heritage Action for America, an offshoot of the Heritage Foundation, and Freedom Partners, a conservative group backed by the billionaire brothers Charles G. and David H. Koch."
190,17499,Women’s March on Washington Opens Contentious Dialogues About Race - The New York Times,New York Times,Farah Stockman,2017-01-11,2017.0,1.0,,"Many thousands of women are expected to converge on the nation’s capital for the Women’s March on Washington the day after Donald J. Trump’s inauguration. Jennifer Willis no longer plans to be one of them. Ms. Willis, a    wedding minister from South Carolina, had looked forward to taking her daughters to the march. Then she read a post on the Facebook page for the march that made her feel unwelcome because she is white. The post, written by a black activist from Brooklyn who is a march volunteer, advised “white allies” to listen more and talk less. It also chided those who, it said, were only now waking up to racism because of the election. “You don’t just get to join because now you’re scared, too,” read the post. “I was born scared. ” Stung by the tone, Ms. Willis canceled her trip. “This is a women’s march,” she said. “We’re supposed to be allies in equal pay, marriage, adoption. Why is it now about, ‘White women don’t understand black women’?” If all goes as planned, the Jan. 21 march will be a momentous display of unity in protest of a president whose treatment of women came to dominate the campaign’s final weeks. But long before the first buses roll to Washington and sister demonstrations take place in other cities, contentious conversations about race have erupted nearly every day among marchers, exhilarating some and alienating others. In Tennessee, emotions ran high when organizers changed the name of the local march from “Women’s March on  ” to “Power Together Tennessee, in solidarity with Women’s March on Washington. ” While many applauded the name change, which was meant to signal the start of a new social justice movement in Nashville, some complained that the event had turned from a march for all women into a march for black women. In Louisiana, the first state coordinator gave up her volunteer role in part because there were no minority women in leadership positions at that time. “I got a lot of flak locally when I stepped down, from white women who said that I’m alienating a lot of white women,” said Candice Huber, a bookstore owner in New Orleans, who is white. “They said, ‘Why do you have to be so divisive? ’” In some ways, the discord is by design. Even as they are working to ensure a smooth and unified march next week, the national organizers said they made a deliberate decision to highlight the plight of minority and undocumented immigrant women and provoke uncomfortable discussions about race. “This was an opportunity to take the conversation to the deep places,” said Linda Sarsour, a Muslim who heads the Arab American Association of New York and is one of four   of the national march. “Sometimes you are going to upset people. ” The post that offended Ms. Willis was part of that effort. So was the quotation posted on the march’s Facebook page from Bell Hooks, the black feminist, about forging a stronger sisterhood by “confronting the ways women  —   through sex, class and race  —   dominated and exploited other women. ” In response, a New Jersey woman wrote: “I’m starting to feel not very welcome in this endeavor. ” A debate then ensued about whether white women were just now experiencing what minority women experience daily, or were having a hard time yielding control. A young white woman from Baltimore wrote with bitterness that white women who might have been victims of rape and abuse were being “asked to check their privilege,” a catchphrase that refers to people acknowledging their advantages, but which even some liberal women find unduly confrontational. No one involved with the march fears that the rancor will dampen turnout even many of those who expressed dismay at the tone of the discussion said they still intended to join what is sure to be the largest demonstration yet against the Trump presidency. “I will march,” one wrote on the march’s Facebook page, “Hoping that someday soon a sense of unity will occur before it’s too late. ” But these debates over race also reflect deeper questions about the future of progressivism in the age of Trump. Should the march highlight what divides women, or what unites them? Is there room for women who have never heard of “white privilege”? And at a time when a presidential candidate ran against political correctness and won  —   with half of white female voters supporting him  —   is this the time to tone down talk about race or to double down? “If your   goal is to get as many people as possible at the march, maybe you don’t want to alienate people,” said Anne Valk, the author of “Radical Sisters,” a book about racial and class differences in the women’s movement. “But if your   goal is to use the march as a catalyst for progressive social and political change, then that has to include thinking about race and class privilege. ” The discord also reflects the variety of women’s rights and liberal causes being represented at the march, as well as a generational divide. Many older white women spent their lives fighting for rights like workplace protections that younger women now take for granted. Many young activists have spent years protesting police tactics and criminal justice policies  —   issues they feel too many white liberals have ignored. “Yes, equal pay is an issue,” Ms. Sarsour said. “But look at the ratio of what white women get paid versus black women and Latina women. ” For too long, the march organizers said, the women’s rights movement focused on issues that were important to   white women, such as the ability to work outside the home and attain the same   positions that men do. But minority women, they said, have had different priorities. Black women who have worked their whole lives as maids might care more about the minimum wage or police brutality than about seeing a woman in the White House. Undocumented immigrant women might care about abortion rights, they said, but not nearly as much as they worry about being deported. This brand of feminism  —   frequently referred to as “intersectionality”  —   asks white women to acknowledge that they have had it easier. It speaks candidly about the history of racism, even within the feminist movement itself. The organizers of the 1913 suffrage march on Washington asked black women to march at the back of the parade. The issue of race has followed the march from its inception. The day after the election, Bob Bland, a fashion designer in New York, floated the idea of a march in Washington on Facebook. Within hours, 3, 000 people said they would join. Then a friend called to tell Ms. Bland that a woman in Hawaii with a similar page had collected pledges from 12, 000 people. “I thought, ‘Wow, let’s merge,’” Ms. Bland recalled. As the effort grew, a number of comments on Facebook implored Ms. Bland, who is white, to include minority women on the leadership team. Ms. Bland felt strongly that it was the right thing to do. Within three days of the election, Carmen Perez, a Hispanic activist working on juvenile justice, and Tamika D. Mallory, a gun control activist who is black, joined Ms. Bland. Gloria Steinem, honorary   of the march along with Harry Belafonte, lauded their approach. “Sexism is always made worse by racism  —   and vice versa,” she said in an email. Ms. Steinem, who plans to participate in a town hall meeting during the march with Alicia Garza, a   of Black Lives Matter, said even contentious conversations about race were a “good thing. ” “It’s about knowing each other,” she wrote. “Which is what movements and marches are for. ” But the tone of the discussion, particularly online, can become so raw that some   marchers feel they are no longer welcome. Ms. Willis, the South Carolina wedding minister, had been looking forward to the salve of rallying with people who share her values, a rarity in her home state, where she said she had been insulted and shouted at for marrying gay couples. But then she read a post by ShiShi Rose, a    blogger from Brooklyn. “Now is the time for you to be listening more, talking less,” Ms. Rose wrote. “You should be reading our books and understanding the roots of racism and white supremacy. Listening to our speeches. You should be drowning yourselves in our poetry. ” It rubbed Ms. Willis the wrong way. “How do you know that I’m not reading black poetry?” she asked in an interview. Ms. Willis says that she understands being born white gives her advantages, and that she is always open to learning more about the struggles of others. But, she said, “The last thing that is going to make me endeared to you, to know you and love you more, is if you are sitting there wagging your finger at me. ” Ms. Rose said in an interview that the intention of the post was not to weed people out but rather to make them understand that they had a lot of learning to do. “I needed them to understand that they don’t just get to join the march and not check their privilege constantly,” she said. That phrase  —   check your privilege  —   exasperates Ms. Willis. She asked a reporter: “Can you please tell me what that means?”"
192,17502,Anonymous Bomb Threats Rattle Jewish Centers Across Eastern U.S. - The New York Times,New York Times,Mitch Smith,2017-01-10,2017.0,1.0,,"The morning rush at the Jewish community center in Columbia, S. C. had subsided when the phone rang on Monday. The caller, an   woman, “in a loud screaming voice kept saying there’s a bomb,” said Barry A. Abels, the center’s executive director. At roughly the same time, a woman dialed the Jewish community center in Rockville, Md. nearly 500 miles away, and said there was a bomb. Not long after, a man called a Jewish organization in Wilmington, Del. He, too, warned of a bomb. Similar threats, which turned out to be unfounded, were reported all over the Eastern United States on Monday, at as many as 16 Jewish community facilities, one advocacy group estimated. Time and time again, the police responded, buildings were evacuated and, after tense waits, the centers and schools reopened. Federal law enforcement officials did not definitively link the threats, but the episodes rattled nerves, and raised deep concern and little doubt that the phone calls had been orchestrated. “My personal take is it’s a statement of where we are in this country,” said Michael Feinstein, the chief executive of the Bender Jewish Community Center of Greater Washington, in Rockville. “There’s some thought amongst some people that hate speech and hate crimes are O. K. and   is O. K. and I think that is reflective of sort of the political discourse that we’ve had in this country. ” Mr. Feinstein said about 300 people had been in the Rockville center when the threat was made, including about 200 preschoolers. After the threat in Delaware, parents were called to pick up preschool and day school students. In South Carolina, Mr. Abels said staff members and patrons attending exercise classes had to leave. About three hours later, he said, the authorities said it was safe to return, leaving many to wonder what had happened. “It could be anything from hate groups to a terrorist situation,” Mr. Abels said. “I think it’s probably more on the hate group side, because it was just a scare. ” He said he believed it was “designed to be psychologically disorienting and scary and just disruptive. ” Jerry Silverman, the president and chief executive of the Jewish Federations of North America, said the threats were part of a disturbing trend toward normalizing hate speech. It was less than three years ago that a former Ku Klux Klan leader killed three people outside Jewish facilities in Overland Park, Kan. And in November, after the presidential election, the   League posted a warning about a reported uptick in hate speech and  . Some members of the   a   fringe movement that embraces elements of   racist and   positions, perceived the victory of   Donald J. Trump as validation for their cause and have become increasingly visible in recent months. Mr. Trump, who has a Jewish daughter and    has disavowed the  . Mr. Silverman said Monday’s cases were part of a broader “coordinated effort” to intimidate Jews. He said that Jewish organizations nationwide had instituted emergency protocols, and that leaders were communicating with one another on Monday as the threats were reported. “We’ve seen this at Jewish community centers over the last year,” Mr. Silverman said. “We’ve seen it at Jewish day schools. We’ve seen it at synagogues. ” “It’s all about training and preparedness,” he added. Law enforcement agencies in Nashville Jacksonville, Fla. and Tenafly, N. J. were among those confirming on Monday that they had responded to and cleared bomb threats at Jewish centers. An F. B. I. spokeswoman said the bureau was “aware of bomb threats” and had been in touch with the local police. “We understand there were similar threats around the country,” said Tzipora Cohen, of the Jewish Community Center in Tenafly. “I guess these are the times we live in. ”"
193,17503,American Destroyer Fires Warning Shots at Iranian Boats - The New York Times,New York Times,Michael R. Gordon,2017-01-10,2017.0,1.0,,"WASHINGTON  —   In a vivid illustration of the tensions between the United States and Iran, an American Navy warship fired warning shots at Iranian boats that were racing toward it near the Strait of Hormuz, Defense Department officials said on Monday. The episode occurred Sunday when four Iranian fast boats came within 900 yards of the U. S. S. Mahan, a guided missile destroyer that was escorting an amphibious warship with 1, 000 Marines on board and a Navy oiler. When the Iranian boats did not respond to a radio call and flares signaling them to stop, the American destroyer fired three warning shots with a .  machine gun. A Navy helicopter also dropped smoke grenades. There was no damage to the Iranian vessels, and they did not return fire. It was the first time the Navy had fired warning shots at an Iranian boat since Aug. 24. Though the boats’ approaches are essentially a form of harassment, they point to the risk of military confrontation in a region that is bristling with Western, Arab and Iranian forces.   Donald J. Trump vowed during the presidential campaign to take military action against Iranian ships that approached American vessels in a threatening manner. “With Iran, when they circle our beautiful destroyers with their little boats and they make gestures at our people that they shouldn’t be allowed to make, they will be shot out of the water,” Mr. Trump said at a rally in September. There were 35 close encounters between American and Iranian vessels in 2016, most of which occurred during the first half of the year, and 23 encounters in 2015. “We had a significant number of these before,” Capt. Jeff Davis, a Pentagon spokesman, told reporters. “They had largely stopped. ” The most serious episode took place in January 2016, when Iran detained and ultimately freed 10 sailors who had unintentionally entered its territorial waters while cruising from Kuwait to Bahrain. On Sunday, Iranian boats approached the American ships six times before they got so close that the Mahan fired warning shots. “This was an unsafe and unprofessional interaction, and that is due to the fact that they were approaching at a high level of speed, with weapons manned, and disregarding repeated warnings,” Captain Davis said. There was no immediate comment from the Iranian authorities. But the Iranian military has signaled its intention to be active in the area and is planning a war game in the region this month. “The navy will practice    tactics during the drill, including modern warfare tactics, for the first time,” Habibollah Sayyari, the Iranian Navy commander, said, according to Iranian news organizations."
196,17506,Here’s How Clemson Won the College Football Playoff Championship - The New York Times,New York Times,Victor Mather,2017-01-11,2017.0,1.0,,"Clemson upset Alabama and won the college football national championship,   in Tampa early Tuesday morning. Clemson was led by its star quarterback, Deshaun Watson, who threw for 420 yards despite facing a defense heralded as one of the best ever. With two minutes left, trailing by 3 points, Watson got the ball at his own 32 and started a drive. Nine plays and 68 yards later, with 1 second on the clock, Hunter Renfrow caught a   touchdown to win the game. The drive included six completed passes, notably a   to Watson’s favorite target, Mike Williams, and a goal line pass interference call. “I’m speechless right now man,” Watson said after the game. “We worked so hard for it we fell short last year. This game is not just for me, it’s for all the alumni, the fans, my family in Gainesville. ” It was the second big title game in a row for Watson, who threw for 405 yards in a loss in this game against Alabama last season. He is likely to go in the top 5 of the N. F. L. draft this year. Watson’s Achilles’ heel during the regular season was the interception, but he threw none in this game. Alabama for its part kept the ball mostly on the ground. Its freshman quarterback Jalen Hurts was   for only 131 yards. Alabama had raced to a   lead on two touchdowns by Bo Scarbrough. Watson cut the lead to   with a long drive that ended with his touchdown run. A game that started as a defensive struggle opened up in the second half. More Watson passing pulled Clemson to within   on a   touchdown to Renfrow. Hurts finally broke through with a   touchdown to a   O. J. Howard, making it   Alabama. Another long Clemson drive concluded with a   pass from Watson to Williams, and Clemson was back within 3,  . Clemson seized its first lead in the game,   as Wayne Gallman punched in a   touchdown run. The key play in the drive was a   pass to Williams, boosted by an unsportsmanlike conduct call against Alabama. Alabama answered like champions with a quick drive. Hurts completed several passes, including a   to O. J. Howard. Then he turned to his other strength, running, and barreled past defenders for a   score. But that only set up Watson for his two minutes of heroics. Here’s how Clemson won the championship: Alabama was 25 percent of the way to another national championship, leading Clemson,   after one quarter in Tampa. The early stages of the game were mostly dominated by defense, with the exception a lightning quick sequence of five plays that including a   scramble by quarterback Jalen Hurts and a   touchdown by Bo Scarbrough to put Alabama in front. Alabama, led by the freshman quarterback Hurts, mostly moved the ball on the ground. Hurts completed just 2 of 8 passes, for 10 yards. He looked especially ineffective going deep. Clemson had limited offensive success against the vaunted Alabama defense  —   quarterback Deshaun Watson was    for 23 yards. It never threatened to score. The Tigers were also hurt by an uninspired failed plunge on    at the Alabama 41. The Clemson highlight was probably a partially blocked punt that took an Alabama roll anyway. Turnovers were expected to be critical in the game, and Clemson had the only one of the quarter, a bobbled snap by quarterback Deshaun Watson that gifted Alabama the ball in Clemson territory with 1:50 left in the period. Alabama held a   lead at halftime of the College Football Playoff Championship in Tampa. The game looked as good as won when favored Alabama went up by   in the second quarter. Alabama was breaking runs and its defense was swamping Clemson’s star quarterback Deshaun Watson. Alabama did it on the ground, rushing for 143 yards. The freshman quarterback Jalen Hurts was    for only 40 yards. Watson woke up with a   drive through the previously impenetrable Alabama defense with six minutes left. He capped it by taking the ball into the end zone himself. He finished the half   for 153 yards. The game was dominated by the defenses, which frustrated most of the game’s drives on both sides. Watson avoided throwing an interception, which he was often guilty of during the season. Clemson did lose one fumble. A poor Alabama punt gave Clemson the ball at Alabama’s 42 and Deshaun Watson took advantage with a quick drive culminating in a   touchdown to Hunter Renfrow. Watson was up to 228 yards passing. That drive notwithstanding, defense was generally trumping offense in the second half. The best drive before the touchdown came from Clemson as Watson led the Tigers from their own 16 to Alabama’s 43. The drive might have gone farther, but a catch for a first down was overruled on review, leaving Clemson with a fourth and short. Watson stayed on the field, and it seemed the Tigers might go for it, but it was a bluff, and Watson punted the ball. Jalen Hurts of Alabama had barely registered in the first three quarters of the national championship. He was   for only 49 yards. And Alabama, after racing to a   lead, was up only  . Then O. J. Howard badly beat Clemson’s Van Smith, and raced down the sidelines for a   touchdown. Just like that Hurts more than doubled his yardage for the game and Alabama widened its lead to   as the third quarter drew to a close. It was a huge play for Alabama, which had been struggling on offense. Watson Takes Over: A mostly defensive game opened up as the third quarter turned into the fourth, with both teams scoring. After Alabama went up by   on a   pass play, Clemson answered with a   drive consisting mostly of shortish passes from Watson. It finished with a   pass from Watson to his favorite target all year, Mike Williams. Watson was up to 294 yards passing, but Alabama still led,   with 14 minutes left to play. Gallman Gives Clemson the Lead: Clemson seized its first lead in the national championship,   as Wayne Gallman punched in a   touchdown run. The key play in the drive was a   pass to Williams, boosted by an unsportsmanlike conduct call against Alabama. Watson continued to solve the toughest defense in the country and increased his passing numbers to   for 360 yards. Alabama Retakes Lead: Alabama, behind for the first time in the game, answered like champions with a quick drive. Jared Hurts, whose passing had been vastly overshadowed by Deshaun Watson of Clemson, completed several, including a   to O. J. Howard. Then for the touchdown he turned to his other strength, running, and barreled past defenders for a   score Alabama led   but Watson still had an opportunity for a   drill. We all know how that ended."
198,17508,Volkswagen Executive’s Trip to U.S. Allowed F.B.I. to Pounce - The New York Times,New York Times,"Jack Ewing, Adam Goldman and Hiroko Tabuchi",2017-01-10,2017.0,1.0,,"When F. B. I. agents learned that a prime suspect in the Volkswagen emissions scandal was traveling to the United States, investigators knew they were on the cusp of a rare feat: the arrest of an overseas corporate executive accused of wrongdoing. On Saturday night, agents swooped in to arrest the Volkswagen executive, Oliver Schmidt, as he prepared to depart Miami International Airport for Germany, according to two law enforcement officials familiar with the case, one of whom described the circumstances of the arrest. The officials spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly about the case. Mr. Schmidt, formerly Volkswagen’s top emissions compliance executive in the United States, has been charged with defrauding the government and violating the Clean Air Act. He made an initial appearance on Monday in federal court in Miami. He will be moved to Detroit, where he was originally charged and where court documents suggest that he might be valuable in the government’s investigation into other Volkswagen officials. Mr. Schmidt, 48, played a central role in Volkswagen’s   of its diesel emissions cheating, according to an affidavit from an F. B. I. agent that was unsealed on Monday. Even as the company obfuscated details of its cheating program from regulators, Mr. Schmidt warned executives in Germany that the company could face criminal charges for its actions, the affidavit says. The case against Mr. Schmidt sheds new doubt on Volkswagen’s assertions that top executives did not understand the full scale of the wrongdoing until early in September 2015, more than a year after questions were first raised about emissions from its vehicles. Mr. Schmidt briefed executives in detail months earlier, in July, according to the criminal complaint, filed in federal court in Michigan. The timeline of the briefing has not been laid out before by prosecutors. The complaint also says that other employees were involved in a   suggesting that more charges could be coming. It is unclear which employees  —   above or below Mr. Schmidt  —   the government believes were involved. Mr. Schmidt reported to   officials at Volkswagen headquarters in Wolfsburg. Volkswagen is nearing a deal with the Justice Department to pay more than $2 billion to resolve the criminal investigation into the emissions cheating, according to three people briefed on the negotiations. The company or one of its corporate entities is expected to plead guilty as part of the deal, according to one of the people. That deal, though, would not prevent charges against individual employees. Volkswagen’s emissions scandal has cost the company $16 billion in civil settlements in the United States alone. The fallout from the scandal has already reached Volkswagen’s executive ranks. The automaker’s chief executive, Martin Winterkorn, resigned in September, several days after American regulators publicly accused the company of manipulating testing results. German prosecutors are now investigating Mr. Winterkorn and another executive, Hans Dieter Pötsch, about whether they violated securities laws. For United States investigators, the arrest of Mr. Schmidt is a stroke of luck. Their attempts to prosecute people suspected of being responsible for the scandal have been hampered because many of the people are in Germany, which does not normally extradite its citizens. Mr. Schmidt’s lawyer, David Massey, said in court that his client had learned of the investigation and contacted the F. B. I. to cooperate. He met with federal investigators in London in 2015, Mr. Massey said. Reached by phone, Mr. Massey declined to comment further, leaving unclear what came of the outreach to the government. Volkswagen declined to comment. Why Mr. Schmidt risked arrest by traveling in the United States remains a mystery. He is fluent in English and has extensive ties in the United States from his years working in the country for Volkswagen. A Volkswagen employee since 1997, Mr. Schmidt was named general manager of Volkswagen’s Engineering and Environmental Office in Auburn Hills, Mich. in 2013. In that job, he was responsible for managing relations with the Environmental Protection Agency and the powerful California Air Resources Board, the regulatory agencies that initially pursued the emissions cheating case. Mr. Schmidt was among the first to react in early 2014 when a study by West Virginia University found evidence that Volkswagen diesel cars polluted far more under normal driving conditions than they did in official testing labs. In an email to a colleague in April 2014, he wrote, “It should first be decided whether we are honest,” according to an affidavit signed by Ian Dinsmore, an F. B. I. special agent. The affidavit was the basis for a criminal complaint against Mr. Schmidt. Volkswagen decided to mask its emissions cheating from regulators, according to the complaint and lawsuits filed by the New York attorney general’s office. To buy time, the company recalled Volkswagens in the United States for an update of the engine software in early 2015, even though Mr. Schmidt and others knew that change would not bring the cars into compliance, according to the complaint. In March, Mr. Schmidt was promoted to a new position in Wolfsburg. As he moved up, he continued to play a crucial role in Volkswagen’s relations with regulators. In July, he briefed   executives on the risks that Volkswagen faced. According to the complaint, Mr. Schmidt and other Volkswagen employees briefed top managers in Wolfsburg ahead of a meeting with officials at the California regulatory agency, also known as CARB, which took the lead in the investigation. Mr. Schmidt explained that the cars contained software that recognized when a vehicle was undergoing tests. The   defeat device increased pollution controls so the cars would pass muster. Mr. Schmidt also told the executives that if the meeting with regulators did not go well, the company could face criminal charges, according to the complaint. The   executives decided not to disclose the defeat device, according to the complaint. The complaint did not say which executives Mr. Schmidt briefed. The account runs counter to the timeline Volkswagen has detailed. The company has maintained in court documents that top managers did not learn of the wrongdoing until early September 2015. The   continued into August, according to the complaint. While attending an industry conference, Mr. Schmidt presented a thick binder of technical information to a   California regulator. But when agency experts scrutinized the data, they found that it made no sense, Alberto Ayala, the board’s deputy executive officer, said in an interview last year. Having run out of excuses for the emissions discrepancies, Mr. Schmidt and other Volkswagen managers met with CARB and E. P. A. officials in September and admitted the presence of a defeat device. By then, Mr. Schmidt and his colleagues had squandered the credit that companies usually get for cooperating with investigators. Nevertheless, Mr. Schmidt continued to represent Volkswagen publicly through early 2016, continuing to play down what the company had done. In January, he testified before the British Parliament as part of an inquiry into the emissions testing. Mr. Schmidt told the members of Parliament that Volkswagen had removed software that recognized when an emissions test was underway. But the software was nothing nefarious, he said. “This software is not defined as a defeat device in Europe,” he said."
